Africa Cup of Nations: David knows kung fu and he’s Googled you! · Global Voices
The 2010 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon 2010) is currently taking place in Angola. The tournament began on 10 January 2010 and will conclude on 31 January.
SuperSport, the provider of pay-television sports coverage across the continent of Africa, has a team of sports bloggers discussing Afcon 2010.
Here is a short roundup of posts from SuperSport Afcon 2010 Blogs:
David knows kung fu and he's Googled you!, begins a post by Thomas Mlambo's post about Afcon 2010 suprises:
David knows kung fu and he’s Googled you!
Well, well, well, talk about an Afcon of surprises.
For many years now, in football anywhere in the world, the traditional superpowers, or so-called Goliaths, have dominated and pretty much bullied the minnows, or as I will refer to them, the Davids of the game, except in the odd friendly match.
But in keeping with the way the world is now, “David” has recently purchased himself a gym contract, consults a personal trainer , does yoga every morning and rides his mountain bike on weekends, all while going to martial arts class every Tuesday, just as a way of keeping fit.
David is now fit, focused and prepared. He’s not a scared boy with a rock in his hand anymore.
The end result?
A nation like Malawi has won a first ever Africa cup of Nations finals match, destroying Fifa 2010 World Cup qualifier Algeria 3-0 on the second day of the tournament.
Burkina Faso then had me watching a game in Cabinda against Cote d’Ivoire where it was clear that their coach, Paulo Duarte (known as the Mourinho of Africa, as he was once “the special one's “ assistant ), had used the Internet to study the superstars they would face and had found a website called “KeepDrogbaQuiet.com”.
"Have playing standards plummeted at the Afcon?," asks Mark Ouma, a football analyst on Soccer Africa on SS3:
When Hassan Shetata says the competition standard at the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations has dropped, it triggers an increased desire to take a closer look at proceedings in Angola.
Ever since taking charge of the Egyptian Pharaohs, coach Shehata has been a man of very few words. So something special must have triggered his comment. Three inter.pretations come to mind.
First, at face value, there is a measure of merit in Shehata’s words.
The African teams in Angola who will be going to the World Cup in June — Algeria, Cameroon, Ghana, Nigeria, and Cote d’Ivoire — failed to win their opening matches in Angola.
It could be argued that each showed the lack of commitment that drove them to prevail in Africa’s most rigorous World Cup qualifying contest.
Subsequently the five teams won their second match. Now they are all through to the quarterfinal.
Going forward there are valid lessons for each of the World Cup-bound teams. The level of competition at the World Cup will be far more stringent.
Thomas Mlambo believes that "goalkeepers really can give you an upset stomach":
I wasn’t going to write a new blog for a few days still but it’s the only thing I can do to try relieve the foul mood that watching Zambia lose to Cameroon put me in.
I’d just had a great dinner during the break between matches and had eased into my favourite position on my most comfortable chair so that I could fully concentrate on a match that would see the fluid, stylish Chipolopolo try upset the rather poor, and so far relatively toothless, lions
Then I was given indigestion…
Goalkeepers really can give you an upset stomach, Kennedy Mweene‘s (one month) late Christmas gift to the Cameroonians, spoilt my evening.
I mean, I’m not Zambian, but still the sight of that “granny power” hopeful of a shot from Geremi actually crossing the line to bring the Lions level literally gave me heartburn.
It had me reaching for my phone to call both Ponga (Liwewe) and Mamadou (Gaye) just so that I could vent my frustration.
Damnit, it’s not easy to watch football home alone; there’s nobody there to swear at when such upsetting things happen.
Mamadou Gaye, one of the most popular and controversial sports commentator in Africa, did not believe that the Super Eagles will get far in the tournament:
It’s bye bye Super Eagles Bonjour a tous, I would like to start by presenting my sincere apologies to my dear friend, the Big Boss Keshi, and all of you.
Keshi is a good friend of mine, I could not control myself to see him failing, but I had no intention to undermine his qualities or character.
During his tenure as the Malian national coach I visited him at least seven times to give him my support. Once again, I say sorry to all of you that got hurt. I promise you that I will never repeat it again.
I feel very honored and humbled by the messages you keep sending to me. I appreciate your understanding and passion for our common game of football.
At last the group stage of the 27th edition of the Africa Cup of Nations is over. With it come tears of joy and sadness.
My predictions had mixed results.
For now the Super Eagles can say bye bye Angola 2010, after managing to beat the two greatest underachievers of the Nations Cup: Benin and Mozambique, who never won a single game in their history of the Africa Cup of Nations.
You might be asking yourself, why I am insisting on retiring some players?
We know as a fact that in our continent most players cheated in their age.
When Angola, the host nation, was eliminated by Ghana, Lubango was so quiet even dogs did not bark that night, reports Thomas Kwenaite from Lubango, Angola:
Lubango went to sleep early on Sunday night.
The hosts of the 27th edition of the Africa Cup of Nations — Angola — have been eliminated by Ghana, who defeated them 1-0 in the quarterfinals.
There were no motorbikes that skidded and screeched their tyres across the tarmac or the blaring of car hooters.
I couldn’t even hear a dog bark!
Thomas also writes about his experience traveling in Angola:
We arrived in Lubango in the most dramatic fashion.
Again, I must confess that I do not harbour a negative attitude towards Angola but really, to undertake a journey of 35 minutes in 10 hours and five minutes is unacceptable, with no one bothering to inform us that the plane had been delayed.
In fact, since our arrival in Angola three weeks ago, every time we undertook a trip to the provinces of Cabinda, Benguela and Lubango, we arrived at the airport as early as 7am but would reach our destination any time after 6pm and sadly, much as my Angolan friends try to make it sound as if I whine a lot, that is unacceptable. Their airline needs to jack up its act.
I am not trying to be funny but for a domestic flight to be delayed by seven hours without anyone from officialdom attempting to notify you as to what went wrong is shocking.
I accepted the first day, when it took us eight hours for a 40-minute flight, that perhaps the volume of people in the country is a new experience to them and makes it impossible for them to ferry their passengers around on time.
Nigeria has secured a spot in the semi-finals after beating Zambia's Chipolopolo boys.
But does Charles Anazodo still believe that the god of football is Nigerian?
Sweden: Parliament Recognizes the Assyrian Genocide · Global Voices
With a vote of 131 against 130, the Swedish Parliament recognized as genocide the massacres that took place within the Ottoman Empire from 1913 to 1920 against the Armenian, Assyrian and Pontic Greek population - an episode that is also referred to as "Seyfo" by the Assyrian Diaspora.
Up to 1.5 million Armenians, 250,000 Pontic Greeks and 250,000 Assyrians were killed between 1913 and 1920, and a few other millions had to flee from what is now Turkey, in order to survive.
Other sources claim the real number of Assyrians and Pontic Greeks murdered reach up to 750,000 and 500,000 respectively.
Phillip Ohlund, in the New Testament News blog, comments saying:
The fact is all those who voted against the motion did not claim nor say that the genocide did not happen. All of them were saying yes the genocide took place, however a majority of them said we need to be loyal to the Coalition Government's decision and others were fearing a yes vote would jeopardize the relations with Turkey. Volkan Kemal, in the Adsiz Vesaire blog, tells us that the result caused distress over the Turkish government and even among some Swedish ministers:
The Turkish Ambassador to Sweden was immediately ordered to leave the country and Turkish prime minister Erdogan announced the cancellation of his planned visit to Sweden the coming week. Sweden's pro-Turkish foreign minister, Carl Bildt was very upset by the decision of the parliament and warned it will harm Swedish-Turkish relations and Turkish-Armenian relations as the resolution called for the recognition of not only the Turkish genocide on Assyrians but also the genocides on Armenians and Pontic Greeks. However, Sweden's foreign minister Carl Bildt disagrees with the resolution.
The Assyrian Genocide is officially recognized by my new favorite country, Sweden. Sweden is the first country to accept the Genocide of the Assyrians, but also has accepted the Genocide of the Pontic-Greeks and Armenians perpetrated by the Ottoman Turks. This is a great day for Assyrians.
Not only will the souls of those that were wrongly and innocently butchered like cattle be rested, the world will be enlightened of the first genocide of the 20th Century. This recognition comes shortly after the one passed by the US congressional Foreign Affairs Committee, as a non-biding resolution which acknowledges the 1915 mass killings as the "Armenian Genocide" with the votes of 23 against 22.
Global Voices
Who are Global Voices Authors, what is their background, and what do they think about the future of Global Voices, journalism and citizen media?
In a series of posts, we are sharing results from the Global Voices Author Survey in 2010.
116 Authors answered the anonymous survey in April.
87% of the respondents identified themselves as active Authors (at least one post in the last three months) the other 13% indicated they were currently inactive.
This post gives an insight into the basic demographics of Global Voices.
It shouldn't come as a surprise that we are a very diverse and global group of people.
Exactly how diverse?
Read on.
Age
The majority of the Global Voices community is between 25-44 years old (75%).
More than 50% is between 25-34 years old, over 25% is between 34-55.
Younger people between 19-24 make up almost 15%, whereas almost 10% is 45 years or older.
Gender
Global Voices is very equal when it comes to the gender breakdown, which was pretty much 50/50.
Occupation
Authors volunteer valuable time to write for Global Voices.
Many write for Global Voices alongside full-time jobs (40%).
About 30% are freelance or self-employed, and another 15% identified themselves as students.
A smaller group is part-time employed (10%) or unemployed/retired (5%).
Marital Status
Just over half of Global Voices authors are single (more than 50%).
Nearly half (45%) are married or have partners.
And a minority (5%) are divorced.
Education
The Global Voices community is highly educated.
Over 85% of respondents indicated they have completed a university degree, and more than 40% have a post-graduate or doctoral degree.
Some report their highest level of education as a few years at a university or college (15%).
Origin
The survey respondents were born in 65 different countries, and spread out over various regions.
The Global Voices community are diverse and cosmopolitan.
Almost 20% have at least one parent born in a different country than they were born in, and 13% said they hold citizenship to more than one country.
Almost 30% of respondents, are currently living in a country different than the one where s/he was born.
Location
The Authors surveyed are currently based in 58 different countries, spread out over various continents.
About half of respondents indicated they have only lived in one country, with the other half having lived in multiple countries.
On average, respondents have lived in at least two countries, with some who have lived in as much as six, seven or even eight different countries.
Language
Authors in the Global Voices community speak on average three languages.
Most people (70%) were not raised in English.
Most people speak a different language than English often or very often (83%), some speak another language sometimes (7%), and others rarely or never (10%).
Computer
And finally, what every true geek wants to know: Global Voices Authors prefer PCs (41%) slightly over Macs (35%), with some opting for Linux/Unix (10%) or another operating system (3%).
A few have no particular preference (11%).
Ada Lovelace Day: Celebrating Women in Technology and Transparency Worldwide · Global Voices
Inspired by Ellen Miller's post on the Sunlight Foundation blog, which profiles the work of women who use technology to promote transparency in the United States, we decided to add to the list by profiling several women from around the world involved in the use of technology to make government more transparent and accountable.
The following profiles were written and researched by Renata Avila, the lead of Creative Commons Guatemala, the Director of Primer Palabra, and our researcher for Spanish-language Latin America on the Technology for Transparency Network.
In Mexico, Irma Eréndida Sandoval heads up a laboratory to document corruption and research the best transparency policies. “Laboratorio de Documentación y Análisis de la Corrupción y la Transparencia” at UNAM, the Autonomous National Mexican University, is one of the most prestigious institutions in Latin America.
In Iceland, parliamentarian Birgitta Jónsdóttir is promoting the Icelandic Modern Media Initiative, a proposal to create a global safe haven for investigative journalism in Iceland that would improve freedom of expression and transparency worldwide by protecting watchdog groups and whistleblowers from libel censorship.
It is important not only approve good laws to promote transparency and openness but also protect a free country from becoming less transparent.
An activist from Germany, Franziska Heine, initiated the most successful e-petition in German history, aimed to prevent a law which would give the German police the right to create and maintain censorship lists with websites to be blocked by German ISPs.
It was signed more than 134,000 times.
Franziska is part of the anti-censorship movement and is engaged in several activities and organizations which fight against surveillance, data mining, censorship and other threats to civil rights.
But good laws and proactive citizens are not enough; tools are also important to enable women around the world to take action and promote transparency.
Margarita Padilla, an IT engineer and the former director of the magazine Mundo Linux is making a difference.
She creates and maintains systems with a social approach and also promotes openness with her website Sin Dominio.
Mercedes de Freitas from Venezuela is the Executive Director of Transparencia Venezuela, the local chapter of Transparency International and is former Ashoka Changemaker Fellow for her work in promoting civic participation to increase government accountability.
These are surely just a few examples of women around the world who are using technology to challenge corruption, improve the performance of institutions, and create better policy to engage citizens and hold public officials accountable.
As a recent article by Alexandra Starr notes, both the fields of technology and government have long excluded women from participation despite their impressive track record for approaching both policy and technology with more realism and tact than their male counterparts.
Software companies and parliamentary buildings around the world are still mostly dominated by men, but this is changing quickly thanks to a new generation of women technologists, activists, and politicians.
I would be remiss to not highlight the work of our female researchers and research reviewers who, it must be said, have proven themselves to be the hardest working members of our team on the Technology for Transparency Network.
Renata Avila, who wrote the profiles of all of the women above, is a lawyer, human rights activist, the country lead of Creative Commons Guatemala, and the director of Primer Palabra.
She has worked with the Rigoberta Menchu Tum Foundation, Harvard University, the Public Voice, and Women in International Security.
Twitter: @avilarenata.
Sopheap Chak is a graduate student of peace studies at the International University of Japan.
Meanwhile, she is also running the Cambodian Youth Network for Change, which mobilizes young activists around the country.
She was previously advocacy officer of the Cambodian Center for Human Rights (CCHR) where she helped lead the "Black Box Campaign" to fight against police corruption in Cambodia.
Twitter: @jusminesophia.
Rebekah Heacock is currently a master's candidate at the Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs, where she studies the intersection of ICT and development and edits SIPA’s blog, The Morningside Post.
She previously lived and worked in Uganda, where she co-developed and directed a series of conferences on post-conflict development for American and African college students.
Twitter: @rebekahredux.
Manuella Maia Ribeiro is a recent graduate of Public Policy Management from the University of São Paulo, Brazil.
Since 2007 she has been researching how governments can promote transparency, accountability and participation through the use of information and communication technologies.
Twitter: @manuellamr.
Namita Singh is a researcher and consultant focused on participatory media.
She studied mass media and mass communication at Delhi University and has a Master of Arts in Social Work from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai.
Namita will soon begin her Ph.D. research in the UK on the processes and impact of participatory video.
Twitter: @namitasingh.
Carrie Yang is a a postgraduate student studying new media at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
The focus of her research is on citizen journalism and new media product development.
She studied English at Guangdong University of Foreign Studies in Guangzhou, China.
Twitter: @Carrie_Young.
Sylwia Presley is a blogger, photographer and activist who is passionate about social media marketing for the non-profit sector and social media for social change.
She has organized numerous events including Barcamp Transparency UK last summer in Oxford, which she hopes will be replicated in other European countries this year.
Twitter: @presleysylwia.
Aparna Ray is an independent qualitative research consultant by profession who is keenly interested in people, cultures, communities and social media/software.
She writes both in English and Bangla, (the latter being her mother-tongue), and covers the Bangla blog world on Global Voices.
Twitter: @aparnaray.
Laura Vidal is a Venezuelan studying Science Education in Paris, France.
She blogs at Sacando la Lengua about languages, literature and interactions in society, and deeply believes in the uniqueness and importance of every culture, and in the study of them as a mirror to our own.
Do you know other women working in the fields of technology and transparency?
Please link to their websites, blogs, and Twitter accounts in the comments section below!
Is Russia an Enemy of Internet? · Global Voices
The degree of freedom on the Russian Internet is an issue for debates.
Some put Russia on the same list of "Internet enemies" with China and Iran.
Others strongly oppose this kind of generalization and claim that Russian Internet is the most liberal and unrestricted public sphere in the country.
The recent “Internet enemies” report by international non-governmental organization “Reporters Without Borders” tried to bring some order in regards to placement of Russia on the Internet freedom scale.
The organization placed the country on the list of “Countries under surveillance.”
This placement and especially the justification for it by the report’s authors raised discussion and disagreement in Russia.
The original report states :
After the takeover by the Kremlin of the audiovisual media early in the Putin era, the Internet became the freest space for discussion and information-sharing in Russia.
Yet its dependence is threatened by blogger arrests and prosecutions, and the blocking of independent websites labeled as “extremist.”
The Web has also become a first-rate sphere of activity for government propaganda and could become a political control mechanism.
It names a long list of government affiliated activities that should be considered as limitation of Internet freedom.
Among those activities is web surveillance system “SORM-2″ that makes possible to monitor online content for security agencies.
The reported also noted the fact that some of major social media platforms were bought out by oligarchs with close ties to the government.
"Reporters Without Borders" additionally cited the story of blocking oppositional websites by WIMAX Internet provider Yota, cyber attacks against liberal websites and persecutions against bloggers.
But there are some more optimistic statements.
The report suggests that “the Internet has become a space in which people can denounce the corruption of Russian officials.”
However, it concludes that despite this fact “the impact of these online mobilizations, blogs and new media on Russian society is still relatively limited” and warns that censorship on RuNet (Russian Internet) may increase.
Right after the report was released, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, a broadcaster funded by the U.S. Congress, asked few Russian Internet experts to comment on the report.
Famous blogger and journalist Oleg Kozyrev said to RFE/RL:
Philippines: Internet cafe hard disks registration · Global Voices
The Philippine Optical Media Board (OMB) recently proposed to require internet cafe operators to register the hard disks in their computers.
According to the OMB, the presence of magnetic components in hard disks makes them fall under the control of the OMB based on the Optical Media Act of 2003.
An association of Filipino internet cafe owners have raised their opposition to the hard disk registration proposal saying that this "will bring the ICT industry as a whole back to the Ice Age."
JC John Sese Cuneta, commenting on Azrael's Maryland's blog opinion that the proposal is stupid, raised the need for technology-literate politicians in the national elections: hows us the need to know who of the candidates are tech and net-aware, so we can vote for them.
Japan: A whale of a controversy · Global Voices
Only a few days after “The Cove” was awarded the Oscar as best documentary drawing the attention of public and media around the world to the hunting of cetaceans issue, anti-whaling group Sea Shepherd’s leader Peter Bethune was arrested in Tokyo , re-igniting the controversy between Japan and Australia - New Zealand.
The protest group activist is charged with trespassing, for boarding a Japanese whaling ship in the Southern ocean during February while attempting to make a citizen’s arrest of its captain for the sinking of the Sea Shepherd’s ship one month earlier (as previously reported for Global Voices by Kevin Rennie).
Ady Gil. By Flickr id: james975. Although Japan’s whaling program is only authorised for scientific purposes and most of the Japanese people do not regard whale meat their favourite meal, the collision with the New Zealand anti-whaling vessel has roused some sentiment of nationalism , though weak, in the country.
But ‘jingoistic’ sentiments are also evident in the announcement of Peter Bethune’s arrest on the Sea Shepherd official website.
The Japanese whaling ship Shonan Maru 2 arrived in Tokyo today with the first New Zealand prisoner of war to be transported to Japan as a political prisoner since World War II.As soon as his foot touched Japanese soil, Captain Bethune reestablished himself as a national hero in New Zealand and an international hero in Australia, France, Britain, the United States, and every other country whose citizens deplore the continued illegal whaling activities of the Japanese whaling fleet.
In Japan, some feel New Zealand and Australia’s anti-whaling activity as an attack on their country’s food culture and wonder why whale meat should be prohibited while cattle and pig meat is not.
It highlights the contentious divide between slaughtering debatably intelligent versus non intelligent animals.
In some cases Japanese media increasingly rode the wave of polemic on the issue.
James at Japan Probe posts about Japanese broadcaster NTV’s show ‘Bankisha’ reporting on the Sea Shepherd issue.
In the first part of the show he says, attention is paid to analyzing Sea Shepherd’s funding sources and budget.
The second half of the clip is about Sea Shepherd’s next target: the bluefin tuna fishing in the Mediterranean.
It looks like many countries have teamed up to ban the fishing of the species, and since 80% of the catch is sold on the Japanese market, it is being interpreted as yet another attack on Japan’s cultural traditions.
Joining the reporters in the studio are an art director who does marketing for many of Japan’s famous brands and a legal scholar.
The legal scholar points out how America used to kill whales for oil.
He also thinks the American position towards Japanese whaling is influenced by an underlying hostility that the “white world” feels towards Japanese.
The art director thinks that Japan needs to do a better job at presenting its case to the world, as so many people in other countries don’t understand why Japanese people eat whale meat. 2008-12-26 SS encounters Japanese whaling ship.
There is no reason that whales should be treated any differently to any other resource. Whales should be managed properly, so they aren’t recklessly driven extinct, but there’s no good moral reason to privilege the “rights” of whales over the right of humans to hunt them.
Poland: R.I.P. Black Saturday 10.04.2010 · Global Voices
Candles in Warsaw, photo by Maria Seidel
As we live through the first 24 hours of the tragedy of the Polish nation, social media present various reactions to this morning's events, when Poland lost its President and 95 other important personalities.
On Facebook, people are gathering in newly established groups:
for Poles who died today near Smoleńsk.
We unite in tragedy R.I.P. Black Saturday 10.04.2010
Some still struggle with accepting the facts:
Others stress the importance of remembering today's catastrophe and the place where it happened:
Many point out the sad irony of the entire accident:
They flew to pay tribute to the victims of Katyń and became victims themselves...
In front of Presidential Palace, Warsaw, photo by Maria Seidel
Social networking site 'Nasza-Klasa' also hosts a significant amount of posts expressing condolences to families, sadness for the nation and a new vision of unity around the person of the President for the entire country:
When he lived some supported him, others opposed him.
The tragedy caused everyone to back him up!
It's sad that only now he was chosen for the President, while we used to joke about him during his life... now it's only sadness and grief because Our President is gone and many others too.
It's sad and depressing that only now he is appreciated (*) Feeling strongly for their families and those who really regret it all !!!!
A scout girl in Warsaw, photo by Maria Seidel
While waiting for official statements, on forums and in comments to news articles, people start discussing the actual reasons behind the accident.
Roled lists the most obvious ones: 1.
You fly old trash, which even pilots fear to manage.
You fly old trash in difficult weather conditions, without seeing a thing.
You decide to land this trash in an airport which is unsuitable for difficult conditions.
On board you have 80+ people, mainly the important ones.
It is common knowledge that a certain person already has a history of forcing pilots to be "less scared"
The results, if one can think clearly, are for them to see.
Wujek_extrema speculates :
Sadly, I do believe in the pressure put on pilots.
I can almost hear one of them say: "We will not let the Russians dictate what we should do" - especially on the way to Katyń.
It will be an international shame on us, once it becomes official.
nych refers to the possibility of the President's intervention : If the Russians advised them not to land, I am sure Kaczor personally decided otherwise, he could not run late for the mess.
xyz points out the potential reasons behind decisions of this kind : There were experienced pilots and generals on board.
They must have been conscious of landing risks of that type of machine in those conditions.
It could have been the case of some people taking the advice of changing airport as planned delay/making it impossible to take part in celebrations and maybe they were too ambitious - we will never know the truth.
pfg questions the irresponsibility of having so many officials travel on the same plane :
I do understand that the President flew with MP's, his ministers, general Gągor and other officials. But all major army heads in one plane - it is unbelievable.
While we are still waiting for answers to those questions, Wykop users focus on the fact that the world is learning the truth about the Katyń massacre itself.
Hemus writes : @JamesikR Despite the tragedy of the whole situation, you are right.
Even though I have mixed feelings, I think that maybe today's tragedy will open the eyes of the West and we will not hear in future statements about the "Polish concentration camps."
Death of those dozens of people will not shade the death of thousands.
Mczarny follows up on the comments of users who claim that high traffic on main search engines is due to simple curiosity about the accident: Thank God for human curiosity.
I will go further to state that today's tragedy will not go wasted and will show what others were fighting for - the memory.
Sadly, they paid the highest price.
Zexon comments on a positive note, mentioning that is can also lead to better relationships between Poland and Russia:
And maybe there'll be an improvement in the Polish-Russian relationships.
All flags at half mast, photo by Maria Seidel
Blogging engine blox.pl, in response to increasing amount of blog reactions, has asked readers to collate their posts in the comments section.
Bloggers, like Grzegorz Ajdukiewicz, share their stories of the day, including photos: This tragical event totally ruined my day.
I started going to an event in the series called Photo Day (already edition #8.0).
In the area of closed for refurbishment Central Station dozens of reporters gathered.
One of them marched next to me talking on the phone.
I heard "President," "all died?" etc.
I thought it was a joke (saying something in the crowd to start a gossip).
I walked out of the stinky underground passage and walked into the almost closed down bar, where to my surprise they still had a TV LCD.
It was on, a few people stared at it with open mouths.
It was 9:56 AM.
Everything became apparent.
It was not a joke!
Sadly!
Others, like yesss, keep their posts very short : Pity for the people, it is people I am sad for. Not looking at colors and opinions.
Deeply sad.
Bronisław Komorowski, who stepped in to lead the country until the next election, reassured the Poles in their feelings of this day in his official speech : Today in the light of our national drama we are united.
Today there is no left, no right wing.
Division of opinions and beliefs is of no importance.
Today we are united, standing in the front of the enormous drama, in the eye of the death of many people.
We join in the pain of families of the victims and in the worry of our Motherland bereaved by them.
A special thanks to Maria Seidel for providing photos from Warsaw.
South Africa: The woman who spent 7 months in a male cell · Global Voices
Before she was acquitted of attempted robbery and hijacking in South Africa, Denise Abbah was imprisoned in a male cell for seven months as she waited for her trial.
The prison officials mistook her for a transvestite.
Ms Abbah is now seeking justice as she is suing the Department of Correctional Services for damages amounting to R100 000.
According to IOL six years after her release Denise Abbah is ready for a fight with the department on the ordeal she went through.
Denise is a mother of five:
Uganda: On the screening of gay porn in church · Global Voices
Has Pastor Martin Ssempa gone too far?
Over 300 people were gathered in church last week by the controversial anti- gay bill supporter Pastor Ssempa to watch gay porn for back up support for the anti- gay bill.
His strong attempts to make the bill relevant even after it is clear that the President Museveni has trashed it and his publicized "million man march" was supposed to come to a halt as it was obstructed for "security concerns".
The church was packed as many people came to see what homosexuals really do in their bedrooms, pastor Ssempa then went on to show graphic images of men in situations.
An interactive Kenyan site capitalfm.co.ke discusses the issue:
KAMPALA, Uganda, Feb 17 - A pastor seeking to bolster Uganda's anti-gay laws which already make homosexuality punishable by life imprisonment screened gay porn in a packed Kampala church Wednesday in a bid to drum up support.
The screening was attended by around 300 supporters crammed into an evangelical church in the Ugandan capital after plans for a "million-man march" were thwarted by police: "We had planned to have a million-man and -woman march in Kampala but unfortunately we were told that we could not march because of security concerns," Martin Ssempa told the crowd.
Police in the Ugandan capital Kampala blocked the demonstration that was due on the same day and he moved the rally to Jinja:
On Sunday, Police moved to halt a planned demonstration in support of the controversial Anti-Homosexuality Bill saying that the government is still sorting ‘issues out’ as pro-gay activists under the Unitarian Universalist Church of Kampala secretly met to condemn the same bill. … Gen. Kayihura confirmed that he hasn’t cleared the demonstration and said, “We asked them to postpone the demonstration because government has some issues to sort out and they agreed,”.
Homosexuals in Uganda are still vulnerable to his attacks as he continues to advocate the killing of gays and life imprisonment.
His support for the bill is so overwhelming by a show of his organized march and screening of gay porn in church to expose gays to more hate; the legislation to demonize homosexuals is so strong as more people embrace his articulate and charismatic power to influence.
Changing attitude highlights from GUG blog on how people applaud to his sermons on how the bible says gays should be killed:
In his report about Ssempa’s gay pornography Ash Wednesday in church, gug says he has heard that some mainstream Christians have had enough and are going to publicly oppose the bill.
They are Anglicans and their strongly heart-felt opposition will be in marked contrast to the 'wishy washy hypocrisy' of the Church of Uganda.
If they are to have any more credibility, says gug, Christians will have to claim back their Church.
Gug watched the programme Agenda Uganda on NTV last night, in which Pastor Solomon Male justified the killing of gay Ugandans because they have refused to change.
He said gays should be killed because the Bible says so, and the audience applauded – another extraordinary message for Ash Wednesday.
The debate continues on how culture rewards people who advocate the killing of gays and the pastor airing his sentiments and how he has gone to far.
Below are some of the comments left on Capital FM by readers:
Haiya.This whole issue can be looked at in two perspectives,one-A church as a group of people have the right to give out their views as far as homosexuality and lesbianism is concerned.This is because one of the purpose of the church is to mold and produce upright people of the nation.
Since police deny them an opportunity to match and air their views in open places, there was no other way of informing the poor/innocent citizens of the facts of homosexuality life,other than to enter into there places of work and teach them there followers.
On the other side,the pornographic films are not supposed to be shown inside the God's temple.It could have been maybe at Mandela stadium where,though not sure,any group can demonstrate.
Therefore let us not only see that part of showing porn at church but how will the common man in the village know what is good and /or bad of homo/heterosexuality?
Lets not deny pastors of talking about the issue.
This is one of the results of being a mediocre church.
The devil is very tactical so he knows how to do 'infotainment' even on the pulpit.
Satan has used Martin Ssempe to entertain people who came to praise their creator, He has also used the pastor to educate people on bedroom gay instead of teaching God's word.
Jesus is coming sooner than we think.
That Kampala church is not a congregation but a crowd of onlookers and idlers.
No wonder the reporter calls them crowd.
How can they sit and watch,instead of ousting the pastor?
It is very worrying at this moment in Uganda to see a "man of God" i hear "Dr,Pastor Martin Ssempa" doing a disgrace to the Christians of Uganda and East Africa as a block.
In Uganda to start with promoting pornography is illegal, Un christian/un Godly if its done in church, To worsen matters its un cultural/ un African to talk about sex in public irrespective of being homosexual or heterosexual porn.
This makes me wonder, Do we really have law enforcement people in Uganda? or the Right wing Christians are becoming untouchable simply because the state house is full of right wing Christians starting with the Big man to the gardener?
Having met one on one with the LGBTI activists in Uganda several times, i have come to believe and respect them for the work they are doing, simply because one has to step on them for them to wake up and say we are being stepped on.
These people do not condone Defilement and pedophilia irrespective of sexuality.
So that leaves me wondering How is it the church's business for what 2 consenting adults do in the privacy of their bedroom?
Is the church out of work or its clergy men are just too obsessed with sex and how people have it?
Fellow Christians, lets get our facts right about the responsibilities of the church and the state. lets not mix the two otherwise we shall find ourselves having canon laws or Quranic laws governing us.
I am not saying they are bad, but they don't fit anymore because they are not fair to the non believers.
"Give God what belongs to God and to Ceaser ........." Follow this links to read more comments.
China: New real estate policy hits market · Global Voices
New housing policy issued by the State Council April 17 has received an unprecedented reaction from the public, Southern Weekend reports.
Analysts and economists have called the policy “the strictest in history.”
Construction in Guangzhou, Guangdong (photo/ Don Weinland) The State Council has requested an increase in down payments on loans for second homes.
Buyers looking to purchase a second home less than 90 square meters must make no less than a 50 percent down payment.
The ratio for properties over 90 square meters is set at no less than 30 percent.
Loans for the purchase of third homes have been temporarily stopped, as have loans to buyers from outside regions who cannot prove a year of local tax or social insurance payment.
This is the first policy to regulate the purchasing of third homes, Southern Weekend reports.
The measures come as an attempt to regulate and suppress the real estate speculation that many believe has distorted healthy market signals and driven prices sky-high.
Since 2003 a wide range of policies have accompanied, guided, and misguided the great fluctuation of the of the Chinese real estate market.
Blogger Zhu Daming writes that flaws in this April’s policy change should be evident from past policy blunders.
He suggests regulation of loans for second homes will ultimately lead to the continued inflation of the market.
Honduras: 7 Journalists Killed and Others Threatened · Global Voices
Following the June 28, 2009 coup d'etat and the November 2009 elections that gave the presidency to Porfirio Lobo, Honduras continues in a complicated situation for freedom of expression.
In the past 40 days, 7 journalists have been murdered, including the latest case, when Georgino Orellana was killed when he was leaving the offices of his television station on April 21.
Twitterer Jairo Libreros (@jairolibreros) wrote:
South Korea: (iPhone 1) Patriotism and Media Manipulation Backfire · Global Voices
The smart phone battle is getting brutal in Seoul.
Young, tech-savvy bloggers are pouring over professional reviews of the invincible Apple iPhone and Galaxy S of Samsung that came out last week.
While older Koreans feel weirdly obligated to side with Samsung in local VS global brand competitions, young iPhone users do not try to muffle their ‘iPhone pride’.
Korean bloggers, even though they nod along with positive feedback on Samsung Galaxy S, condemn local media for indiscriminately praising Samsung while bad-mouthing the iPhone.
The iPhone, like anywhere else in the world has a rock star status here in South Korea.
Two major Korean phone makers, Samsung and LG, came up with the "iPhone killer",Samsung with its Galaxy S and LG with Omnia phone, both decent smart phones.
But it is always the iPhone users who show off its phone in the public, praising it nonstop with their faces glowing with pride.
In a LG’s Omnia user internet café, complaints on the iPhone user’s arrogance are heaping up.
A netizen ID Itbestar shared an unpleasant experience involving his iPhone user friend.
He added that he does not understand his friend’s irrational pride of unreasonably expensive iPhone and even though iPhone has tons of functions, what consumers are actually using on daily basis is limited to few.
South Korea: (iPhone 2) A Hierarchical Society Cannot Make an iPhone · Global Voices
The smart phone battle is getting brutal in Seoul.
Young, tech-savvy bloggers are pouring over professional reviews of the invincible Apple iPhone and Galaxy S of Samsung that came out last week.
See Part 1 Patriotism and Media Manipulation Backfires.
A blogger Djhan commented though Samsung has strong hardware, it needs develop its own software, stressing releasing new model without radical innovation is just a ‘hoodwink’ to customer.
Bangladesh: Does Anyone Care About The Urban Poor? · Global Voices
Unheard Voice breaks a news that authorities had started evicting the new settlements including the Jaago Foundation school for the underprivileged along the Gulshan lake in Dhaka city.
When challenged they could not show any prior notice or proper authorization.
The blogger questions: "does anyone really care about the urban poor?"
Caribbean: Bloggers Saddened by Wangari Mathai's Death · Global Voices
Bloggers from Jamaica, Barbados and the Bahamas mourn the death of "The great African (Kenyan) environmentalist...and the first African woman to win the Nobel Prize, Wangari Maathai".
Caribbean: Commonwealth Competition Winners · Global Voices
Caribbean Book Blog has all the details on this year's Commonwealth Short Story Competition winners, with writers from Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago being recognized.
Comoros: Blog monitors Fuel Shortage in Anjouan · Global Voices
In his blog, Dafinemkomori documents fuel and power shortage in the Comoros.
He explains that fuel shortage has greatly impacted greatly many other aspects of the economy on the island of Anjouan (rise of the price of tuna and power shortage).
North Korea: Kim Jong-Il's Surprise Appearance On the Simpsons · Global Voices
Martyn Williams from the North Korea Tech blog wrote a short post on Kim Jong-il's appearance on "The Simpsons".
One character from the episode says that he was forced to write a musical about Kim in a North Korean prison and introduces a song addressing the regime's ban on internet.
North Korea: Kim Jong-il Plans to Solve Famine by Breeding Giant Rabbits · Global Voices
Zimbabwe Metro site posted a list of eccentric acts and plans carried out by North Korean dictator, Kim Jong-il.
It includes Kim's plan to solve famine by breeding giant rabbits and revelations that Kim being one of the world’s largest buyer of Hennessy, German cars and Uzbekistani caviar.
Cuba: More Arrests Post-March · Global Voices
More reports of activists being arrested in the wake of a peaceful protest march that took place this past Saturday.
Timor-Leste eProcurement Portal · Global Voices
The East Timor government says it established the Timor-Leste eProcurement Portal to enhance transparency and accountability.
The website "allows citizens, donors, NGOs and the press to analyze and search information related with the goods, services or works that (the government) is procuring.”
Global: Interview on NATO's Evolution · Global Voices
We Magazine's Ulrike Reinhard interviews NATO's Deputy Assistant Secretary General for Public Diplomacy, Dr. Stefanie Babst on video about the "we" in their work, and how NATO has evolved over time as an organization - touching on globalization, gender equality, multi-national defense spending, political leadership and communication.
Guinea-Bissau: Celebrating Independence with a Tribute to Aristides Pereira · Global Voices
On the 38th anniversary of PAIGC's (African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde) declaration of independence of Guinea Bissau, many bloggers are paying tribute to the leader of the struggle at that time, Aristides Pereira , who later became the first President of Cape Verde.
Pereira died two days ago, on September 22.
India: Independent Radio Legend Deported · Global Voices
Shivam Vij at Kafila reports that "David Barsamian, founder director of Alternative Radio, and independent radio legend, was deported on arrival from New Delhi airport in the early hours of Sept 23."
Initial reports suggest that his attention to the Kashmir issue could well be the reason.
India: To Be Poor In India · Global Voices
Project Why exposes that there is a serious flaw in determining who is poor in India and who will get social welfare benefit from the government.
The blogger asks: "what are we trying to do: show the world that we are not poor?"
Jamaica: Golding to Resign? · Global Voices
Jamaica and the World republishes a Wikileaks cable that sullies the image of the government, while Girl With a Purpose reports that "Prime Minister Bruce Golding dropped a bombshell on Jamaicans...announc his intention to resign as Party Leader of the ruling Jamaica Labour Party (JLP)."
Ethical Issues in Doing Business in North Korea · Global Voices
Uhro van der Pluijm from Omkar Gopalakrishnan's Posterous blog wrote about ethical issues in doing business in North Korea.
Book Review: 'Nothing to Envy: Ordinary Lives In North Korea' · Global Voices
Change in Longitude blog posted a thorough review of the book 'Nothing to Envy: Ordinary Lives In North Korea' by Barbara Demick.
The book’s title comes from a song that North Korean school children recite, “We have nothing to envy in the world” in spite of chronic malnutrition and famine rampant in the country.
East Timor: Proposed Base Law on Environment · Global Voices
La’o Hamutuk provides an unofficial translation of East Timor's proposed Base Law on Environment which seeks to provide the legal framework in protecting the country's environment.
Trinidad & Tobago: Loving Delicious · Global Voices
TECHTT shares his thoughts on the new Delicious site.
China: Interview with a digital dissident · Global Voices
Tom from Seeing Red in China interviews Xiaomi (twitter: @xiaomi2020), one of the organizers of Yizhe, a group which translates Western journalism on China so that they are more accessible to ordinary Chinese.
Though not politically-oriented, some members of the group were identified by authorities because they translate news considered too sensitive domestically.
Brazil: Creating Opportunities for Life After Jail · Global Voices
In the 1990s Ronaldo Monteiro was convicted for extortion by kidnapping and sentenced to 28 years in prison in Brazil.
While serving his time, Monteiro and some fellow inmates were concerned for the wellbeing of their families in their absence.
They responded to the situation by setting up a workshop inside the jail where they recycled and sold paper.
A portion of the profit went towards improving their equipment, and the rest was shared among their families.
That's how project Uma Chance (A Chance) started.
The Center for Digital Inclusion (CDI) began offering short courses on information technology to detainees.
Monteiro enrolled and learned fast; he was soon invited to teach as well.
The project expanded to other penitentiaries, and family members were also invited to participate.
In this documentary by Mixer Productions, Monteiro explains how he pursued a new path from inside jail and turned his life around (subtitles in English): ( )
Event to celebrate the third year of ‘Growing up with Citizenship' at CISC.
Photo by Danny Silva, used with permission. In 2002, while still incarcerated, Monteiro created the Center of Social and Cultural Integration known as CISC-Uma Chance, which offers courses on IT and recycling to communities of Tribobó, in São Gonçalo, in Greater Rio de Janeiro.
They work to make opportunities available to more people, as CISC develops activities in cooking, citizen awareness, healthy lifestyle and preparation for university.
In 2003, Monteiro was granted parole.
New beginnings
In 2006, Monteiro went one step further and created the impressive Incubadora de Empreendimentos para Egressos (IEE) (Incubator of Small Businesses for Ex-Detainees).
Aiming for social reintegration of young offenders, detainees and former detainees, the incubator fosters ideas with dynamic lessons on entrepreneurial skills and management.
The IEE seeks to break the cycle of repeat-offending by offering a chance to men and women who are often turned down by society.
The project has earned support from Petrobras since 2006, and has partnered with Ashoka, McKinsey & Company and several universities.
Because of this work, Monteiro was named an Ashoka fellow.
Ronaldo Monteiro talking to participants of IEE. Photo by Danny Silva, used with permission
The penitentiary system in Brazil has been repeatedly been a subject of criticism by human rights groups.
A report by Amnesty International in 2010 said detainees “continued to be held in cruel, inhuman or degrading conditions”, often facing overcrowded facilities.
When detainees are released, they carry a heavy stigma, and harsh experiences in jail hardly contribute to rehabilitation.
But with the proper incentive and inspiration, detainees may find options of new paths to rebuild their lives.
E Day: Discovering Celebrities' Favorite Words · Global Voices
What do singer Shakira, actor Gael Garcia Bernal, chef Ferran Adria and writer Mario Vargas Llosa have in common?
They are all part of the group of 30 celebrities who have shared through video their favorite word in Spanish as part of the celebrations for 'E Day' by the Cervantes Institute.
The Cervantes Institute of Spanish has set out to celebrate the Spanish language in a series of cultural and educational events held all around the world at their institutes on the weekend closest to the Summer Solstice; this year, that date will fall on June 18, 2011.
Ready to celebrate E Day
Through their website they have managed to catch the interest of Spanish speakers around the world, who have voted for their word video and played crossword games with other visitors to the site in the chance to win a trip for two to Andalucia in Spain.
The videos of celebrities saying their favorite words have become one of the main attractions to publicize the event and even in countries where there won't be any Cervantes Institute celebrations, the videos have been shown on television:
Japan: We're Losing to Apple, and Here's Why · Global Voices
When IT consultant, author and developer Isseki Nagae titled an October 11, 2011, post on his blog "Why Japanese manufacturers keep losing to Apple, in the words of Steve Jobs" , he probably knew he would draw some flak for it.
Many of those who came to the post through Hatena, where it was bookmarked over two thousand times, no doubt expected to find some insights from the former Apple CEO on what is wrong with the Japanese electronics industry.
With the iPhone finally making major inroads into the local mobile phone market, and Samsung stealing the spotlight from Japan's legendary gadget-makers, these insights are much in demand.
The post, though, wasn't exactly what its title seemed to imply.
Instead of the words of Steve Jobs on the topic, the post was an opinion piece by Nagae, supported in part by things Steve Jobs had said in other contexts.
iPhone in Japan (by Flickr user nobihaya) Nagae sets the backdrop: It’s not the consumers’ job to know what they want.
Nagae concurs:
Russia: The Future of LiveJournal's Network Effect · Global Voices
On October 12, 2011, the Vedomosti newspaper published an article titled "A Half-Dead Journal" which analyzed the drop in LiveJournal's traffic within the last nine months.
The publication provoked a heated discussion on the credibility of journalists' work, the value of network effect, and the structure of the Russian blogosphere.
Defense of LiveJournal
Svetlana Ivannikova, head of LiveJournal Russia, Demian Kudryavtsev, the managing director of Kommersant Publishing House (one of three main shareholders of the SUP Fabrik, a company that operates LiveJournal) and blogger Anton Nossik (who worked as a 'social media evangelist' at SUP Fabrik in 2006-2008) claimed that Vedomosti did a bad journalistic job and misinterpreted the data.
Ivannikova presented graphs that compared the traffic structure of LiveJournal in 2009 and 2010, which showed that the drop in traffic might indeed be connected with seasonal prevalence.
Why LiveJournal is important
The debates on whether or not LiveJournal was losing its audience have been taking place since mid-2010, as more and more alternative social networks entered the Russian market.
For a long time, LiveJournal has been a platform of choice for many bloggers.
It was so popular among netizens that it got into the spotlight of the Russian big business.
In 2007, it was bought by the Russian businessman Alexander Mamut and minor shareholders (later Mamut sold a significant share to another 'oligarch' Alisher Usmanov and Usmanov-controlled Kommersant Publishing House).
In August 2011, Usmanov and Mamut announced that they would sell SUP (some commenters argued that the Vedomosti article was published on purpose by a potential buyer in order to reduce the price).
The preference of LiveJournal over stand-alone blogs or blogs that didn't have friend connections as one of their core functions has been an important distinguishing feature as compared to other countries' blogospheres.
In 2011, however, the platform experienced DDoS attacks, which pushed some users to establish their presence on alternative social networking platforms, such as Google+ and Facebook.
Among other things, the Vedomosti article noted that LiveJournal's financial structure was non-transparent (as a privately-held company, SUP doesn't have an obligation to share its traffic data or financial statements) and that one of the revenue streams was covert blog ad placements, the market whose size even ad analysts cannot evaluate.
Users confused
The observers of the scandal (it also has another aspect: Kommersant and Vedomosti are two main competitors in the niche of business analysis), however, expressed confusion rather than loyalty to their once preferred platform.
Sergey Muhammedov, a popular photoblogger, wrote :
Russia: Networked Volunteers Save Lives of Missing Children · Global Voices
In September 2010, 4-year-old Liza and her aunt disappeared in a forest area outside of Moscow.
Just a few weeks prior to that, fierce wildfires had destroyed forest paths and it was particularly difficult to navigate.
Volunteers who found out about Liza's disappearance used the Internet to distribute an urgent call for help.
A community of car drivers was the first to respond.
Unfortunately, it was too late; Liza and her aunt died alone in a forest.
Liza Alert: Internet-based Volunteer Network
Liza's disappearance and a number of similar cases have triggered the creation of a more organized volunteer community.
Liza's rescuers decided to establish a network whose members would engage immediately once a child was lost.
The network was called Liza Alert in order to commemorate Liza, and a reference to the successful United States-based Amber Alert.
Grigoriy Sergeev, one of the network founders, explains how the network was born:
East Timor: Investing in Creativity and Culture · Global Voices
East Timor is known for its material, musical and dance traditions.
Celebration of "culture" was a crucial part of its resistance to Indonesian occupation from 1975 to 1999, and East Timorese independence has seen a number of emergent cultural projects.
But something that goes overlooked is a strong culture of craft and "making" with locally available materials.
Enter a new project called "Tatoli ba Kultura", meaning "Passing on Culture".
The objective of the project, after extensive research and preparation, will be to support the development of a school of creative industries:
The project aims to create an institution to conserve and protect indigenous culture but also to bring creativity to an educational level in order to create innovation.
The coordinator of the project, David Palazón, is an artist who hails from Barcelona, Spain.
Passing on culture
By chance I came here to have a break with my career, do some volunteering in my field, one thing led to another.
He has been crisscrossing the country with his team researching Timorese material and performance culture, and posting fascinating videos, images and audio on the Tatoli ba Kultura "media map", which is fast becoming a great reference.
Some of the most compelling videos are of musical instruments which are region-specific.
Take for example this video of a musical instrument called Rama from Ataúro Island:
The Timorese context is quite specific, argues Palazón:
Kultura is not quite the same as we understand culture in the western world.
For Timorese, culture is all those things that comes from the past, it's a reference point to understanding where they come from.
My most common question when I do fieldwork is: Why do you do this like this?
And the reply is always the same: 'Because it is the way our ancestors used to do it, and it has been passed on from generations.'
Obviously they have many influences from Indonesia, China, Portugal, etc ... which are also rooted in the inside of the culture and are in practice totally embedded.
He says, in relation to innovation:
Traditionally speaking, Timor is still very much a country dependent on subsistence agriculture, the economy outside the capital is very much dependent on the family, their goods, what they can exchange, their family members and their incomes, and how these are distributed among who they choose in relation to their own traditions and beliefs.
So in a way it is very conservative - not politically speaking - but because changing things implies a serious risk that many people cannot afford Nevertheless inside the traditional system there are people who are more progressive.
Ultimately, Palazón hopes that a school of creative industries would among other things generate employment through the rise of a "creative class", increase small business development, and boost tourism.
Tatoli ba Kultura has the support of Griffiths University in Queensland, Australia and a number of institutional donors.
Palazón paraphrases Griffiths Professor Tony Fry, who says, "Timor has two national resources: oil and culture.
Oil will not last forever, on the contrary, culture will last forever."
Videos: Homeless But Not Voiceless · Global Voices
In Colombia, Canada, the UK, and the US, we have different initiatives that aim to bring to the foreground the plight of those who are twice forgotten: the children, indigenous people, immigrants and the transgender community.
Homele$$ by Bob With CCBy
The Truth follows several homeless in Bogota, Colombia, who speak about their lives, touching on political, social and economical aspects of homelessness.
One of those interviewed is a 15 year old who tells of his estrangement from his family, his drug addiction, his forays into the most dangerous parts of towns to get drugs and his wish to be able to be "fine" and go home to spend Christmas with his family on the other side of the city:
The House takes us inside the "home" of a homeless person: underneath a manhole cover and into an underground wiring station beneath the streets of downtown Bogota.
There, Darío Acosta has his bed, books, radio, battery powered light and his imaginary dog.
Mark used to be homeless in the 1990s, living on Hollywood Blvd in Los Angeles, addicted to drugs and selling pictures of his iguana to tourists.
Today, he heads the Invisible People project, where he goes around the US and Canada asking homeless to tell their stories and advocating for their rights.
On a visit to Canada, he noticed the connection between the First People and homelessness and he then tried not only to get their stories and show the unique situation faced by them while maintaining cultural sensitivity but also, hopefully, to change their situation:
The following interview is with Dave Ward, director of aboriginal relations at Homeward Trust Edmonton.
This is an important conversation. David talks about aboriginal culture and solutions to ending homelessness.
Too me, I think the biggest is listening.
We need to listen to their culture and include aboriginal people in the process of finding and implementing solutions.
One of the striking interviews is the one featuring Alma.
She's a homeless grandmother in Winnipeg who is putting herself through college in the hope that having an education will empower her and increase her chances of getting back her granddaughter from child protective services as she becomes able to give her a better life:
In Bradford, England, Hope Housing provides opportunities for homeless people who don't classify for benefits, most of them because they are immigrants who no longer have their documents, are unemployed and have to turn to squatting or living on the streets to survive.
Caucasus: Frozen Conflicts, Forgotten Lives? · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage on Refugees. Overshadowed by the conflict in the former Yugoslavia at roughly the same time, the three conflicts waged in the South Caucasus in the early 1990s remain as neglected by the international media as ever.
Over a million people were forced to flee their homes as war broke out between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the disputed territory of Nagorno Karabakh, while nearly half that figure were displaced when Georgia lost control over its two breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia at roughly the same time.
True, a resurgence in fighting over South Ossetia culminating in the war between Georgia and Russia in August 2008 might have made international headlines, but the plight of refugees and IDPs in the South Caucasus rarely does, once ceasefire agreements are signed.
Meanwhile, in Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, as well as the breakaway territories of Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Nagorno Karabakh, the local media rarely deals with the problems facing refugees and IDP communities unless they can be used to propagandize against the 'enemy.'
Instead, refugees and IDP issues are generally covered by international development and humanitarian organizations themselves, usually in the interest of raising awareness among donors.
Meanwhile, none of the three conflicts show any sign of being resolved in the near future, further casting a shadow over the fate of those displaced by war.
Ethnic Armenian refugee from Nagorno Karabakh © Onnik Krikorian 1994
However, as new and social media empowers more people in the region, even if only in terms of access to information, some of the voices of the refugees and IDPs themselves can finally be found online.
An example of this can be found on iDP Voices, a project supported by the Norwegian Refugee Council, the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center, and Panos London.
Containing the stories of 29 IDPs from South Ossetia and Abkhazia collected by interviewers and presented in text and audio form, an electronic version in PDF format is also available for download.
When did you last listen to a displaced person and grasp the impact of displacement?
Did you ever think what it means to lose close family members in conflict, lose all your belongings and to be uprooted from your place of origin?
These direct voices have the power to cut through prejudice and political agendas, they speak for themselves.
The focus is on universal human experiences and responses, not specific political issues.
By reading what the displaced people themselves want to tell us, we may learn what is important to them and what issues they are particularly concerned about.
It allows us to glean the reality behind generalised notions of displacement.
The stories stand alone with little analysis added – their power lies in their offering of images, a voice, sensations, feelings, hopes and dreams.
One such voice is Teah, a 30-year-old Georgian who fled Abkhazia and who says "she dreams of an “ordinary life” for all Georgians and Abkhazians, who must “forgive each other everything."
I try to speak to both Georgians and Abkhazians.
It is impossible to hate each other; we have made enough mistakes without adding that one as well!
We should forgive each other and ourselves too.
And one more thing: there has to be the will on both sides to achieve more trust and good relations.
One party alone cannot solve anything.
I think these borders should be opened so that people can communicate with each other.
Dialogue comes first, that can lead to trust...
Only after talking about our own tragedies did we truly learn about each other and start to love each other.
It took time to trust each other.
It was when we believed that we understood each other’s pain, when this moment came, that we could sit down and talk openly - without aggression, without accusations.
Such narratives told entirely from the first person are rare, however, although there are some exceptions.
For example, international donors have funded the airing of refugee issues on local radio stations although these are often short lived, and one young ethnic Azeri refugee wrote two guest entries for own personal project which also forms part of Global Voices' Caucasus Conflict Voices coverage.
The first was written in English before being voluntarily translated into Armenian, Azerbaijani and Russian:
I was only four when I left Armenia, but in retrospect I don’t know whether that’s fortunate or not as I am unable to remember everything I left behind.
But I do remember our house, our garden, the playground, my friends, my apple tree, and the rooster which I loved so much.
After arriving in Azerbaijan I used to dream about our house and walking in the ruins of our village.
At some point, however, everything just faded away.
Even so, my family have never lost their belief that one day we will go back home.
We believe that two neighbors who have lived together for centuries will come together again even if evil has never left them alone and always whispers hatred.
In Azerbaijan, we kept ourselves apart from the local culture for many years and couldn’t adjust back to our ethnic roots.
Being treated as a stranger made it even more difficult.
Azerbaijanis from Armenia segregated themselves from the rest as a result and united among themselves.
Discrimination towards us was everywhere. It was in the kindergarten I went to, in the primary school, and even in our social life.
This war made me a Peacemaker although I am very new in this area.
My struggle is more complicated, however, because on the one hand I have to help those who are in conflict, and on the other help myself.
But if most refugees and IDPs are deprived of a voice in Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, their stories are at least conveyed from time to time in independent media projects online.
One example is a recent blog-based project conducted by the International Center on Conflict and Negotiation (ICCN) and the European Center for Minority Issues (ECMI)-Caucasus.
Originally written in Russian, but also translated and available in English, one post co-penned by an Azerbaijani and Georgian journalist offers an insight into the hopes of refugees and IDPs in their own countries:
“Good neighborhood,” I was told by one refugee from the settlement of Dashalti in Nagorno-Karabkah, “this is when the people live not on the ‘other side’ and are divided by a line, but when they live near and next to one another, when they set up family, they visit one another and national identity does not matter in the least.
For many centuries it was believed that the land belongs to those who live on it, who work on it.
The rest was invented by the politicians.
Experience shows us that those who saw with their own eyes sorrow and worry and felt in their own hearts the trouble of their native country will never accept that it is lost.
But at the same time they never want to repeat the same horrors, and they never strive for war.
All the refugees who talked with us in Azerbaijan want to go back to their small native land and to live peacefully with Armenians.
The sentiment is not peculiar to Azerbaijani refugees and IDPs, and can often be heard from their Armenian counterparts who were also forced to flee during the tit-for-tat expulsions and mutual ethnic cleansing that defined the Karabakh conflict.
However, the reach of such narratives remains small given relatively low Internet penetration and usage in the region.
Television, the main information source for most citizens, remains particularly off-limits for alternative narratives on conflict.
Even so, videos including the stories of refugees and IDPs, such as these on the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict rounded up by Global Voices here and here, are at least available online.
Unfortunately, however, what few projects did exist to empower refugees and IDPs themselves through new and social media do not appear to have succeeded.
Nevertheless, as Internet penetration increases, the potential is there. This post is part of our special coverage on Refugees.
Colombia: Salsa Song Criticizes Bus Rapid Transport System · Global Voices
A salsa song and video documents the suffering that travelling in the Transmilenio public transportation system of Bogota represents for its users.
CCBy Carlos Felipe Pardo
France: New Visa Restrictions for Foreign University Graduates · Global Voices
If the United States' immigration law had ever been similar to the one France recently decided to apply, Yahoo would have been a Chinese company (founded by Jerry Yang from Taiwan), Google would now be a successful Russian business (set up by Sergey Brin) and Apple would have been a Syrian enterprise - the father of Steve Jobs was a foreign student when his son was born.
What's more, if the University of Hawaïï had not given Barack Obama Sr. the opportunity to study in the US, his son would probably not be here today.
Immigration debate
A political debate has been going on in France since beginning of September 2011.
Minister of Interior and President Sarkozy's former Chief of Staff, Claude Guéant, signed in May 2011, cojointly with the Minister of Work and Social Relations, Xavier Bertrand, a circular which makes it more difficult for foreign students who have graduated from French public and private universities to work on French territory and thus change their student visa permit into a working visa.
Claude Guéant, French Minister of Interior.
Image from iledere.parti-socialiste.fr (CC).
In addition, a decree was signed on September 6, 2011, in order to tighten conditions for foreigners looking to pursue their higher education in France.
Julie Smith, an American citizen living in France was affected by these new policies.
After she received a deportation letter from the authorities, she wrote on French information website Rue 89:
Here is my story of being an American immigrant in France, the story of many as immigration policy has tightened under Interior Minister Claude Guéant.
This policy destroys the lives of many foreigners who have been settled in France and have built their lives here for years.
It deprives France of their real contribution to the economy and is applied in a completely illogical and unjust manner.
Demonstration
The demonstration was organised by the "Collectif du 31 mai", an organisation which gathers foreign students and graduates from French universities. It counts more than 6,000 supporting members on its Facebook page.
"La Confederation Étudiante", the second most important student union in France, has also mobilised on the issue.
The organisation has launched a petition asking the Government to withdraw the measure. It has been signed by more than 2,000 people thus far.
Some international students assume that the May 31 circular is an opportunity for them to go back to their countries and help develop them.
Kocoumbo, a Cameroonian student, published an anonymous guest post on Rue 89 entitled "African Students, Guéant is helping us: let us dare go back home" .
He writes:
Italy, Senegal: Strong Reactions Follow Murder of 2 Senegalese Men in Florence · Global Voices
On December 14, 2011, at the initiative of Mayor Matteo Renzi, the City of Florence, Italy, decided to suspend all commercial activity for ten minutes as a protest against racism.
Shop owners closed their stores for the entire day in solidarity.
A tragic event that took place in the day before.
On December 13, Gianluca Casseri, a 50 year-old hunter, far-right activist and author of books denying the Holocaust, opened fired on a group of Senegalese in two outdoor markets in Florence.
The horrific event resulted in the death of two street vendors from Senegal, as well as the perpetrator of the crime, who committed suicide after a brief shoot-out with police.
The incident also left three other Africans injured and hospitalized in critical condition.
Anti-racism demonstration in Florence by Antonella Beccaria on Flickr (CC-NC SA-2.0)
According to reports of the incident published in the media, the incident created chaos and fear in the very heart of Florence.
It also provoked vehement reactions and speculation as to the motives behind Casseri's killing of two strangers.
Was this a case of racism or insanity?
A video reviews the homicide and provides one Senegalese man's reactions; in his opinion, this was a case of racism.
The video also features comments from members of a far-right group called Casapound, which counted Casseri among its enthusiasts.
Tiziano Rugi commented on the event reporternuovo.it:
Chiara Barisson, an Italian sociologist based in Senegal, handed out 200 flyers in the streets of Sandaga as a way of offering her condolences and apologies, not only to the families of the victims killed in Florence, but to the Senegalese people as a whole.
Surrounded by her Italian friends, she insisted on saying "I'm sorry" for the racist act, said The Observateur.
Shop owners were said to be very touched by the sociologist's gesture.
However this comment on the video from de schwarzeraal puts a different spin on the murderer's act:
Africans from the Ivory Coast have been known to burn their Senegalese neighbors at the stake; one Senegalese man killed an African from Mali over garbage and God knows what else while pretending to be in charge... in the street, a Malian killed a man from Senegal over a place in front of a TV screen, etc...crazy people are everywhere...
On December 17, the outdoor markets of several Italian cities organized protest marches, as reported in one opinion piece on the blog corriereimmigrazione:
Thousands of people turned out last Saturday in Florence in protest at the action of a far-right activitst who killed two street vendors of Senegalese origin last Tuesday.
And this report appeared on the Senegal 24.7 Facebook page:
Senegalese men killed in Florence: protest against racism — At least 10,000 people marched last Saturday in protest against racism in Florence (centre) where a far-right activist shot and killed two street vendors of Senegalese origin last Tuesday, injuring three others.
We want to ring in a new era of hope, so that our two brothers didn't die for nothing, a spokesperson from the Senegalese community, Mr. Pape Diaw, declared to the press.
We must work harder for peaceful coexistence and respect.
It has to become a real battle, and not just a façade, he added.
The number of protesters was estimated to be about 10,000, according to police; the figure 12,000 was reported by protest organizers.
Many wondered whether this was a case of political exploitation or proof of compassion. blogunugalsene.com published posted the following update:
As this goes to press, Me Aïssata Tall Sall is taking part in the protest in Florence, to pay tribute to the memory of the two murdered Senegalese men, with the expected presence of the Italian Prime Minister, the President of the Regional Council, the Democratic Party leader (major opposition to the current governing party).
The lawyer hired by the Socialist Senegalese party will head up a pool of French and American lawyers who will defend the victims.
Tomorrow, December 18th, before leaving Italy, she is scheduled to meet with other Italian lawyers who will also join the pool.
The Italian authorities reacted with strong statements and actions to the tragedy, as did the Senegalese community and Italian civil society.
Russia: Opposition Faces Online Communication Problems · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Russia Elections 2011.
The current political protest is network-based.
Many of its participants, excluded from mainstream politics, are veterans of online battles.
However, as most of them are joining the protest from different perspectives, offline communication between them could have been smoother.
A union against the common enemy, rigged election results, and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's political machine: this is what has brought into one place representatives of Russia's liberal, social-democratic, and nationalist forces.
On December 22, 2011, we saw them creating a coalition decision for the first and, hopefully, not for the last time.
All parties are very interested in legibility (as compared to the sliding legitimacy of the ruling regime) and therefore resort to online tools that would allow to reach a new level of transparency.
Voting for the balanced representation proposed by Alexey Navalny.
Screenshot from rusotv.ru
The revolution will be both tweeted and televised
And indeed, the protesters are a lot tech-savvier and much more transparent than their counterparts.
The meeting of the organizational committee of the December 24 rally that was held on December 22 was very well live-streamed by rusotv.org, an online live-broadcasting media portal.
The ability to broadcast the events of December 2011 live online has made people around the world and in Russia the spectators of a truly historical event – a gathering of some 100-150 opposition activists, who represented thousands of the netizens and millions of not-connected Russians.
The meeting was moderated by Alexey Navalny, a politician-turned-blogger-turned-political-prisoner-turned-politician.
Next to him were the nationalists (including Dmitry Krylov and Vladimir Tor) and the liberals (including Boris Nemtsov and former chess champion Garry Kasparov), social-democrats, anarchists, environmentalists, unionized car owners, the Pirate Party, and many others.
The key question of the meeting was to decide who would be the host at the December 24 meeting.
It was not just an organizational issue, but the question of whether the different, polarized political groups would manage to find a formula that would suit the majority of the diverse citizen groups.
Earlier, the protesters had decided they would use two tools: the Facebook voting tool and Survey Monkey to let people add their own rally speaker candidates.
Problems, however, emerged with both tools.
Platform bias or ease of rigging?
Denis Bilunov, representative of the "Solidarity" movement and a person responsible for the online polls, presented the results of the popular vote.
Some 83,000 users took part in the Survey Monkey poll, but the results were rather disgruntling: Alexey Navalny came in first, but right after him were a neo-Nazi nicknamed "Tesak" and a fraudster businessman Sergey Mavrodi (both received about 20 percent of the votes).
Bilunov recognized them as rigged (in his opinion, the SurveyMonkey service had been abused by a vote-stuffing bot) and proposed to disregard them.
Aside from these two 'rigged' candidates (participants believed it was used by the authorities to discredit the voting system), the following candidates were on top of the list: Yuri Shevchuk (singer) Leonid Parfenov (journalist) Boris Akunin (writer) Alexander Belov (nationalist politician) Konstantin Krylov (nationalist politician) Dmitry Bykov (poet) Vladimir Tor (nationalist politician) Mikhail Efremov (actor)
It is important to note that in the Top 30 list, four nationalists were on high positions, while on Facebook there was none.
This led to a controversy. An anarchist who called himself Ukrop ('dill' in Russian) stated that these online elections "were as falsified as the official ones."
Boris Nemtsov, leader of Solidarity movement, who had been caught cursing at his political allies, supported this idea.
As one representative proposed: "Let an IT guy create a program that would make 2,000 votes in a few minutes and let everyone see how easy it's to cheat online with such voting."
The option of using SurveyMonkey in the future seemed to be recognized as flawed.
Then Bilunov proposed to use either Facebook or Democracy2.ru (an e-democracy platform created by the author of "Cloud Democracy" concept Leonid Volkov).
Geidar Djemal had a Bolshevik-style proposal of choosing delegates based on their "political suitability" and not on poll results.
The nationalists, however, didn't like Facebook voting, claiming there were "only liberals" there, and that the choice of the platform would have a significant impact on the outcome of the voting.
Ilya Ponomarev, one of the creators and main ideologists of the open voting, defended the results, saying that despite controversy, this was still the most massive online poll ever conducted in Russia.
Navalny formula
The option proposed by Alexey Navalny seemed to have aggregated all options expressed by the speakers.
He followed those speakers who proposed a mixed approach: the majority of the speakers (mostly celebrities: actors, journalists, writers, and even the former USSR president Mikhail Gorbachev, whom he described as "inherently liberal") are those who are on top of both the SurveyMonkey and Facebook lists, given they will attend the December 24 protest, plus the representatives from political groups: 2-3 persons from the nationalists (the speakers will be selected by Dmitry Krylov and Vladimir Tor), 2-3 from the leftists (selected by Ilya Ponomaryov and Sergey Udaltsov).
The voting, assembled after some major shouting, showed: 80 persons for Navalny's option, 32 against. The decision passed.
Those who participated decided to form a new political body that would unite the anti-government effort and continue the protests against the elections.
Rustem Adagamov, a popular blogger, remarked :
Russia: Mikhail Khodorkovsky and the 2012 Presidential Election · Global Voices
Formerly Russia's richest man, jailed oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky is once again in the political spotlight, as Russian presidential candidate Mikhail Prokhorov vows to pardon Mr. Khodorkovsky if he's elected next spring.
Mr. Khodorkovsky has been incarcerated since 2003, when he was arrested for non-payment of back-taxes as part of the "Yukos Affair".
Many have doubted the validity of the charges against him and view his prosecution as part of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's political agenda.
In a November 16, 2011, post entitled "FC Anzhi and the Yeltsin Era Money," Global Voices described Russia's economy since the fall of the Soviet Union, the origin of the "oligarchs," as well as Putin's attempts to control and direct their activities:
The Yeltsin era of the 1990s was characterized by a struggle over who would emerge from the transition with holdings of Russia's major sources of wealth, such as its natural resources.
The victors in that struggle are known as the ‘oligarchs' because they possess a degree of wealth that surpasses most people's ability to conceptualize.
Vladimir Putin's rise has had unexpected effects on the power of the oligarchs in that he has been able to enforce limitations on them and to direct their activities.
The early Putin years marked a divide between the oligarchs who fell in line with Putin's wishes and those who didn't.
During this time Mr. Khodorkvsky, CEO of the oil giant Yukos, was praised by international organizations for being the first of Russia's elite to make public his financial records; he met with world leaders, he engaged in well-publicized domestic relief efforts, and he mentioned running for president in 2008.
Mr. Khodorkovsky was then arrested in 2003 and his assets were seized.
Pavel Khodorkovsky, Mikhail's son, wrote in a blog associated with CNN on November 15 about his father's 2003 arrest and incarceration.
It’s been eight years since Vladimir Putin’s thugs forcibly removed my father, Mikhail, from a plane and took him to prison.
The last time I saw him was a few weeks before his arrest, when he was visiting me at college in Boston.
There were already concerns about his safety in Russia; his business partner, Platon Lebedev, had been locked up earlier that summer.
And despite the urging of American friends and colleagues to stay here, my father remained firm and returned home.
In the intervening eight years, after enduring two show trials and countless other indignities – all while the international community’s condemnation of his imprisonment fell on deaf ears within the corrupt Russian regime – my father has not given up hope.
Even as the term of his first sentence ended two weeks ago – and, therefore, by all accounts, he should be set free – he remains optimistic.
He is encouraged that in the last few months, the chorus of those who denounce his imprisonment has grown louder.
In May Amnesty International declared him a prisoner of conscience.
Then the European Court of Human Rights ruled that he was not afforded fair hearings and had been subjected to degrading conditions in court and in prison.
This fall the International Bar Association concluded that his second trial was unfair, based on “mistake-ridden and self-contradictory” charges that were at odds with the Russian criminal code.
Protesters at a rally demanding freedom for Mikhail Khodorkovsky outside the Khamovnichesky District Court in Moscow.
Photo by RFE/RL RFE/RL, copyright © Demotix (12/27/2011)
Khodorkovsky's life story has been immortalized by a 2011 documentary film.
Samuel Rubenfeld wrote in a blog associated with the Wall Street Journal about the film:
German filmmaker Cyril Tuschi directed the film, which Corruption Currents saw at a special press screening on Nov. 3.
He began with painting a picture of the Wild West landscape of post-Soviet Russia. Graft ruled, and it still does: The World Justice Project’s 2011 Rule of Law Index (pdf) warned of a lack of checks and balances in Russian government, leading to “an institutional environment characterized by corruption, impunity and political interference.”
Such was the case of Khodorkovsky, according to the film, which features the first interview with the man since his detention.
There were issues with finding Russian theaters willing to screen the film, and in the interview Tushci was asked to discuss that process.
This post was published on November 29, which was days before the controversial parliamentary elections, and yet this film maker, who had a limited understanding of the Russian language or Russian culture, as he indicated earlier in the interview, seemed to be aware of something ominous.
He seemed to be aware of a powerful link between Putin and Khodorkovsky:
I’m very surprised that they are so open-speaking about it.
They don’t screen it out of self-censorship.
I don’t think…that the Kremlin said, “Don’t do it.”
I think the cinema owners fear state revenge if they would do it.
Very simple.
Tax inspections.
Not enough fire doors, so you get a fine of a million or something silly like that.
But maybe it’s just inherited in their genes the authoritarian character.
Not in everybody.
I’m very happy people are changing, and the air is changing in the last 72 hours.
It changed a lot.
Something’s happening, and it’s not only the film.
The film’s only triggering something that’s already in the air.
All the…approval for Putin is going down.
People are criticizing and laughing at Putin on live TV, and this wouldn’t have happened before.
Something is changing and I’m curious what will happen.
Russian billionaire and presidential candidate Mikhail Prokhorov at a news conference in Moscow.
Photo by RFE/RL RFE/RL, copyright © Demotix (09/14/2011)
In a December 16 post, the Khodorkovsky and Lebedev Communications Center announced how the upcoming Russian presidential election could affect Khodorkovsky's fate:
Mikhail Prokhorov, the Russian billionaire who plans to challenge Vladimir Putin in Russia's presidential election said that his first move if elected will be to pardon Mikhail Khodorkovsky .
The post went on to cite a Wall Street Journal article, which quoted Putin's response to whether he would be equally willing to free Mr. Khodorkovsky if he were to win the election:
"Freeing Khodorkovsky is the president's right. For the pardon to happen, Khodorkovsky would have to write an appeal for a pardon, and effectively assume the guilt, which he hasn't done so far.
If he writes it, the pardon will be possible by law.
If Khodorkovsky writes such an appeal, I will consider it, but I will have to become the president for that first."
A Russian-language blog devoted to Mr. Khodorkovsky's cause cited a Gazeta.ru article in their December 2 post :
Thailand: Survival and Creativity During Floods · Global Voices
The situation in Thailand is improving as floodwaters are receding but the death toll has now reached more than 600, according to Saksith Saiyasombut:
Now that the worst seems to be over and the tide are slowly, but steady receding in many parts of the country, a sense of normalcy returns to Bangkok.
However, the suffering for many in the affected areas continue, there’s still conflict along the barriers and the death toll is now over 600.
Ladprao64 also observes that life is getting back to normal in many places:
Although many people are still struggling with flooded homes and workplaces on the vicinity of Bangkok, further north and some areas of the city itself, our little patch is getting back to normal.
We went to Central Ladprao on Saturday – it had opened the day before – and had no real difficulty getting there.
There was some water near the SCB Plaza and cars were using the two outside lanes but the inside ones would have been passable if necessary.
Apart from that, there was plenty of mud to show where the water had reached and the place is going to look rather shabby for a while.
The flood disaster in Thailand is the worst in the past five decades in terms of human casualties and damages in properties and infrastructures.
But the disaster which flooded majority of the provinces for several weeks, including parts of Bangkok, also showed the inventive ways of people as they coped with the floods.
Thai Flood Hacks is a Tumblr account which gathers the interesting flood devices and approaches which were created by ordinary residents to survive the floods.
For example, below is an improvised boat made of plastic tubs:
Worried about parking in flooded buildings?
Below is some unique motorbike parking:
And car bags protect these vehicles:
Below is a water bottle swimming vest for cats:
This amphibious pickup truck seems ready for the flooded roads:
Universities also helped in manufacturing devices that could help save lives during the flooding.
A popular example is the FloodDuck which gives a warning of electric current in the floodwater:
Clarice Africa identifies several crowdsourcing applications which provide useful information to residents.
An example is the website Is my house flooded?, “where Bangkok residents who evacuated their respective homes can simply enter their postal address and find out the flood situation near their homes.”
Here’s a story of dog rescuers and volunteers as they search and help stranded dogs in the city:
We found several dogs in deserted houses & garages that were perched on floating cars.
It was evident that they had not eaten in days.
These dogs were terrified & our rescuers struggled to catch them with their nets & bare hands.
We also found puppies stranded on a pile of floating rubbish who were delighted to see us & promptly jumped in our boat where they enjoyed some food & affection.
Their mother was in deep water nearby & although terrified, we finally managed to rescue her also.
Zambia: Has the 90 Days Promise Been Fulfilled? · Global Voices
Zambia’s President Michael Sata’s government reached its landmark 90 days in government on December 23, a period his Patriotic Front party promised it would turn around people’s lives and improve general governance.
Sata’s defeated the MMD which had been in power for 20 years after promising the electorate more money in their pockets and delivery of a new constitution, among other things, in 90 days.
Netizens on various social networking sites have been assessing the new government’s achievements, if any, and failures.
Satire columnist, Kalaki’s Corner, captured an imaginary exchange between the president and the first lady:
Artistic depiction of Michael Sata as Zambia's Black Moses.
Image source: 90 Days Countdown Facebok group.
I had nearly finished my toast and marmalade when he finally appeared, flicking specks of invisible dust from his lapel.
‘Good morning, darling,’ I said.
‘If you say so,’ he replied.
‘What’s in the papers this morning?’
‘The Boast has got a long editorial…’
‘That’s nothing new,’ he chuckled, ‘It always has a long editorial.
Nobody to edit the editor, that’s the problem.’
‘Ninety days of broken promises.’
‘What did you say dear?’
‘That’s the title of the editorial.
Ninety days of broken promises.’
‘Would you mind, my dear,’ he replied, ‘pouring me a cup of tea.’
‘Ninety days of broken promises,’ I repeated, as I poured him a cup to tea.
‘Who’s been breaking their promises?’
‘You, my dearest.
He’s talking about you.’
He hung his head for a moment.
Then looked up, and looked me straight in the eye. I’m very worried.
Everybody will be talking about it.’
On the Facebook group, Zambia People’s Parliament (ZAPP), the 90-day promise did not escape debate by the “Honourable Members”.
One member, Sidique Abdullah Gondwe Geloo, suggested a public march with people expressing their personal experience in the three months of the new government:
Mr Speaker sir,after much consultative counsel with both people of high profile and laymen, I proposed and stick to the following"The 90Days Promise Progress Check Match."
They campaigned, we listened; they promised, we believed; elections came, we voted.
Now we ask, "How far have we come?"
Join us in a Match to mark the 90days of PF in power.
Bring your placard, happy or sad.
Share your views, popular or unpopular."
Do I believe this match will yield fruit?
In more ways than one.The government will get the message that we as a people are nolonger the gullible bunch that they feel can tremble or fear to stand up against false promises made.
On another Facebook group, The 90 days Countdown, Ebron Ngoma dismissed calls for a march:
My experiences in Zambia with demos. No one takes particula attention to detail as to why they are protesting.
Today We are making noise about 90days ,so far no one has come up with a clear list of what pf promised to deliver in 90days.
We need to be more inteligent than merely exciting pipo.
Am a firm believer of making a politician accountable and no one wil ever change my views on accountability.
If we dont have a list of the promises, we are as gud as leting it pass.
A list of promises pipo, then am in.
We need a clear roadmap on how we whant to do this, not just excitement.
A youth who refuses to learn from the past will never be guaranteed of success.
Lets NOT DEMOSTRATE because we want to, we need a CLEAR OBJECTIVE,then you will have the whole Zambian youth with you on that day.
Politicians cannot be fought by shadow boxing-they must know that we are watching with intelegence.I INSIST -A LIST OF PF PROMISES vs ACHIEVEMENTS.
Most of the readers’ reactions to a story on the Zambian Watchdog quoting Information Minister Given Lubinda, the Chief Government Spokesman, saying that the Vice President Guy Scott would present a statement to Parliament detailing the achievements of the PF government in the first 90 days of its rule, did not spare government on backtracking on its campaign promises.
One reader, Pimbi Mano wrote:
Mr Lubinda,please let the Zambians be the judges of your performance.You can not be your own judge and jury,the Zambia people have the right to analyse your performance in the last 90 days and give you a mark.
My mark so far is 1% just for keeping Zambia so far-but you have failed the rest.Your Cabinet is the worst since independence.Nobody knows what your long-term policies are.
The only people who know what you are trying to do are the kaponyas -who have no idea of what they are doing in the first place.
Theb economy is in danger of not growing as fast as it grew in in the last 5 years.
Look at the Zambian kwacha and see how it is doing.How real jobs have you created so far-noone.The truth is that you will not create any jobs during the next five years.
Your foreign policy is a mess.Angola,Malawi and evening Mozamabique are really not happy with you.
You said you did not want any investment from China and now you are talking to China.
Mr Lubinda,please do not waste your time with a parliamentary statement-Zambians everywhere are watching.Remember every dog has its time.
However, one reader, Twesheko supported the PF government:
I am so surprised people made a big thing out of the 90 days remark.
Seriously, how can you believe in such political statements?
This was just an empty political statement – the PF is in power not because of the 90 day thing – actually, the Vice President should not even say anything about achieving promisses in 90 days – this is because PF won as result of the long term strategic plans that they have outlined in their manifesto which you will start seeing in the 2013 budget.
So far so good.
Mineral Royalty tax has increase, there is Tax Relief on PAYE, cleaning up the fuel procurement process – fuel reduced, minimum wage to be revised per sector in consultation with all – the 90 days have been useful but are not the most important thing.
There were also questions about the 90 day promise on Twitter.
One such entry read:
@sandakc: Michael Sata gave himself a 90-day honeymoon to turn #Zambia around, a deadline that expires Friday.
Has he delivered on his 90-day promise?
Africa: 2012 Cup of Nations Kicks Off! · Global Voices
The Africa Cup of Nations began in Bata, Equatorial Guinea this Saturday January 21, 2012, kicking off three weeks of fierce competition.
The Cup of Nations, the most important international football competition in Africa, is taking place in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea between January 21 and 12 February.
Supporters in Africa and around the world have been enjoying the build-up to the two opening matches; dancing, light and sound were all part of the spectacle:
GaGuie the Mascot!
With GAGUIE : GA as in Gabon, GUI as in Guinea and E as in Equatorial!
Image from fr.cafonline.com with permission
Here is a round up of the first three days of the tournament.
Matchday One
Libya took on Equatorial Guinea in the curtain raiser on 21 January, and it was co-hosts Equatorial Guinea, making their tournament debut, who took a surprise 1-0 win.
The Senegalese fluffed their entry to the competition with a 2-1 defeat inflicted by Zambia on the same day.
Senegal fans took to the web to place the blame on coach of the national team.
Touy wrote on Seneweb News :
Côte d'Ivoire: Uproar Over Unauthorized Press Use of Blogger's Photos · Global Voices
Christmas 2011 in Côte d'Ivoire was different from those of previous years.
Eight months after the change of regime, the authorities wanted to mark it with completely new decorations in the country and by organizing huge fireworks displays on December 30-31, 2011.
A great many Ivorians went out to take advantage of these various spectacles and the supporting technology, and everyone left with souvenir photos.
If it was a good experience for these amateur photographers, that was not the case for Audrey Carlalie .
This young Ivorian student, a professional part-time photographer, saw her photos of the fireworks display published by certain Ivorian newspapers and even the largest online Ivorian information portal - without her permission.
She did not hesitate to complain on her Facebook page, and soon the blogs and other social networks had picked up the buzz.
The Ivorian blogger Edith Brou sets the scene in her blog and explains:
Spain: Electricity Cut Off for one School in Alicante · Global Voices
Power was cut off for 800 pupils in a secondary school in Alicante due to outstanding payments.
The Valencian Community is currently mired in financial difficulties after years of extravagant spending.
MPs Esther López Barceló from the United and Alternative Left and Mireia Mollà from the Coalicío Compromis, provided reactions to the news.
Ethiopia: Swedish Journalists Found Guilty of Terrorism Charges · Global Voices
Two Swedish journalists, Johan Persson and Martin Schibbye, were found guilty on Wednesday 21 December, 2011, of supporting terrorism in Ethiopia and entering the country illegally.
Jesper Bengtsson, chair of the Swedish section of Reporters Without Borders, commented on the verdict on Swedish Public Radio:
I had hoped, and I think everyone had hoped, that the Ethiopian authorities had already made an example of Persson and Schibbye by starting the trial process and jailing them for six months.
Obviously that wasn't enough of an example.
Journalist Martin Schibbye (right) ©Kontinent Agency AB, used with permission.
Early on Wednesday morning, Judge Shemsu Sirgaga denied the defense's main argument, which held that Schibbye and Persson travelled professionally and had a journalistic duty to report on the conflict from the side of the rebel forces as well as that of Ethiopia's military, and sided with the prosecution.
Sirgaga commented that the Swedes had "used their profession as a cover for terrorist activities" and called for an 18-year prison sentence to be handed down on 27 December, despite Schibbye and Persson's background in reporting from dangerous parts of the world and the testimony by two of Schibbye's and Persson's colleagues, freelance journalists Adrian Blomfield and Phillip Ittner, who had been flown into the capital Addis Ababa to take part in the court proceedings.
During the trial, Schibbye and Persson admitted to entering Ethiopia illegally embedded with the rebels, but denied any charges of supporting terrorism.
In November, the pair were acquitted of the third charge against them, of being "members of a terrorist group".
"Political prisoners"
Mattias Göransson, the editor-in-chief of Filter magazine - the only client of Schibbye and Persson's to publicly acknowledge it had been in touch with the pair before their African trip - was called as a witness during the trial, and expressed disappointment with the verdict when interviewed by Reuters in Sweden:
When the judge read out the grounds it sounded positive, he had virtually nothing against them.
Everything he said was speaking for an acquittal, and then he found them guilty anyway.
This indicates they are political prisoners and nothing else.
The case against Schibbye and Persson has brought further attention to Ethiopia's vague anti-terrorist legislation, under which over 100 opposition leaders and journalists have been jailed up to 20 years.
Three Ethiopian journalists are currently on trial for terrorism charges.
The Swedish section of Amnesty International said it is critical of Ethiopia's arbitrary interpretation of the anti-terror legislation.
Lise Bergh, the General Secretary, said she is convinced of Schibbye and Persson's innocence :
Amnesty International does not believe there is any evidence of the men supporting the ONLF or its operations, nor that they are guilty of any criminal act.
We regard Johan Persson and Martin Schibbye as prisoners of conscience, as they have been prosecuted due to their legitimate work as journalists.
Until the day of the verdict's announcement, the Swedish government had been fairly silent on the case.
Carl Bildt, the foreign minister, had referred to methods of quiet diplomacy when asked about how the Swedish Foreign Ministry were working for the release of the journalists.
The situation has been further complicated by Bildt's personal history.
Until 2006, when Bildt was appointed foreign minister, he served as a board member of Lundin Petroleum, the Swedish oil company whose activities Schibbye and Persson were intending to investigate in the Ogaden province.
Johan Persson prior to his and Martin Schibbye's detainment ©Kontinent Agency AB, used with permission.
After the verdict was announced, Bildt commented on the case on Twitter:
@carlbildt: Sweden expresses grave concern over hard sentence against Swedish journalists in Ethiopia.
We will continue to work to set them free.
Bildt's comment was followed by a statement from Fredrik Reinfeldt, the Swedish prime minister:
Our position is and continues to be that they were in the country on a journalistic assignment.
They must be released as soon as possible in order to be reunited with their families in Sweden.
At an afternoon press conference , Bildt stated that high-level diplomacy was now the prioritized course of action:
We are now making sure that the prime minister's strong message gets through to the Ethiopian government.
We will then reason with the parties involved over the formal steps to be taken in this process.
A mellow reception awaited the official statements in social media.
Under the hashtag #EthiopiaSwedes, tweets were sent out blaming the Swedish authorities for what is perceived as several months of perceived inertia regarding the case.
Twitter user @tommyskot asked:
@tommyskot: When will @sweden and @carlbildt do something to get our journalists home? #EthiopiaSwedes
Below is a sample of reactions from Twitter:
@annalindberg: Now we begin to understand what conditions African journalists are working under. #ethiopiaswedes
@sweden: I'm shocked and appalled by the verdict against #ethiopiaswedes @hurriya: spread this initiative to build solidarity for #ethiopiaswedes http://www.facebook.com/freejohanandmartin #svpol
Seleshi Ketsela, one of Schibbye and Persson's lawyers, said that his clients would now consider whether to appeal.
An alternative route may be to seek a pardon from the Ethiopian state.
Georgia: Return of the Meskhetian Turks · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage on Refugees. The repatriation of the Meskhetian Turks to Georgia from Azerbaijan, Russia and Central Asia is not just a priority for the Georgian government, but also an obligation it has had to fulfill to the Council of Europe since becoming a member in 1999.
Over 100,000 people were deported by Stalin in 1944, from the Meskheti region of Georgia, among them Hemshin (Muslim Armenians), Kurds, and Karapapakhs.
By far the largest group relocated, however, were the Meskhetian Turks.
At least 400,000 Meskhetian Turks now live outside of Georgia, although it has been unclear how many would return in a process that should have officially ended last year, but which might be extended.
This has been one of the reasons why the process of resettlement has taken so long, especially as ethnic Armenians now make up the majority population in what is now the Samtskhe-Javakheti region.
As a result, in order not to strain inter-ethnic relations, the Georgian government is settling Meskhetian Turks throughout the country.
East of Center recently touched upon the sensitivities surrounding the issue:
Thanks to Stalin’s paranoia, millions of Muslims and members of various non-Slavic ethnic groups in the Soviet Union were forcibly relocated to Central Asia during the ’30s and ’40s.
It’s hard to think of any of these communities that has been victimized more often and so thoroughly ignored by the wider world as the Meskhetian Turks.
Clearly, however, Georgia is not capable of resettling that large a population anywhere on its territory, much less the underdeveloped Samtskhe-Javakheti region where the Meskhetians originally lived.
And then there is the Armenian question, and a large dose of anti-Muslim feeling.
Salim Khamdiv of Abastumani village.
Khamdiv was 14 when the deportation happened © Temo Bardzimashvili
However, in a two-year application period ending in July 2010, the Georgian government received only 5,841 eligible applications according to the European Center for Minority Issues (ECMI).
This amounted to just 9,350 individuals.
Ahıska Türkleri – Ahıskalılar explains what the Meskhetian Turks hope for:
We want to return our lands from which we were expelled unjustly.
As of today, we have been settling down in 2000 different settlements at 9 different countries including USA.
We have difficulty in getting citizenship, settlement permission and work permission in the countries where we live.
Our culture and language is on the edge of vanishing.
We want to return our country as Georgian citizens and to live in our lands from now on.
Osman Mekhriev (left) and Islam Niazov, elders of the Abastumani Meskhetian community, take a break from the holiday prayers during the end of Ramazan celebrations © Temo Bardzimashvili
Last year, Zaka Guluyev's Blog detailed the situation of some of those that have returned, mainly from Azerbaijan, to Samtskhe-Javakheti:
Muslim Arifov and his family has come back to Akhiltskhe three years ago from Saatly, settlement of Azerbaijan.
Arifov says that now he feels happy coming back and live in his motherland Georgia.
“My parents were unfairly deported from this region.
Now I’m happy that I managed to come back and live in my home Georgia with my family.”
Two months ago Muslim’s relative Mehemmed Rehimov also decided to come back with his family from Azerbaijan and to live in his motherland Akhlstkhe.
Mehemmed Rehimov says that Georgia seems better place to live in.
“It’s very good sense to live in my motherland Georgia. two months already past after my coming to Georgia.
I’m happy here with my family and I’m feeling myself very well”.
Ismayil Moidze, the chairman of the society says that, their organization was expecting more people to apply for returning.
But he explains that many families refused to apply because many documents are required for applying repatriat status in Georgia.
That’s why many families decided to stay where they live”.
Rana Rajabova, a 24-year-old bride in the Azerbaijani village of Shirinbeili.
Rana's grandparents, natives of the Arali village in Georgia's Adigeni region, were deported to Uzbekistan.
Before the deportation they were told by the soldiers that they would return in 7 days, so no belongings should be taken.
Her grandmother hid her gold jewelry at home with the hope of returning after a week.
Rana's family has applied for the repatriation and says that they do not want to be "refugees." © Temo Bardzimashvili
Georgian Youth _BAR_ Multiculturality _BAR_ New Challenges looks at how the new arrivals are reintegrating:
In Samstkhe-Javakheti, the regional association “Toleranti” provides families of repatriated Meskhetians with legal counseling, medical assistance and language support.
In the frame of its 3-year project “Provision of humanitarian assistance to repatriate Meskhs and prevention of “self-repatriation”, the association noticeably organizes classes for young repatriated Meskhetians twice a week.
Youth who attend the classes hope to improve their chances of success at school, where they receive tuition in Georgian, and to support their integration in the community.
Considering how motivated they are to learn Georgian, and as quickly as possible, this integration is usually 100% successful.
As many others however, one thing prevents them from totally feeling home in Georgia: they are waiting for an answer to their application for the Georgian citizenship, which they sent two years ago.
Without citizenship, they are not fully-fledged citizens in Georgia, and therefore struggle to have access to basic services like medical assistance.
They have no choice, though: just like the others, they have to wait – this means a life of uncertainty in the long-term…
Portraits of Abdullah Gamidov, his wife Khalida, and her father Zia Chumidze lie on the checkerboard in the Gamidov's house in Kant, Kyrgystan.
Zia Chumidze was fighting at the frontline when the deportation happened and never made it home. © Temo Bardzimashvili
Where's Keith comments on the work of Georgian journalist and photographer Temo Bardzimashvili who has been documenting the return of the Mskhetian Turks to Georgia as well as their lives in Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkey.
Some of Bardzimashvili's work, “The Unpromised Land – the Meskhetians’ Long Journey Home,” was exhibited in Tbilisi, sponsored by the European Centre for Minority Issues (ECMI), and accompanies this post with kind permission. Delizia Flaccavento also posts photographs of a Meskhetian refugee community in Buffalo, New York, as does Meskhetian Turk Refugees in Atlanta, Georgia (the US State).
Global Online Community Protests U.S. Anti-Piracy Bills · Global Voices
Today, January 18, is an important day for the Internet.
Corporate websites, from Google to Twitpic, along with civil society groups and individuals, have all joined together in a common cause: to protest two American bills that could have grave effects for global online free expression.
As Global Voices' Executive Director Ivan Sigal has written, "there are powerful corporate and government forces who would prefer to see the openness and accessibility of the web restricted."
The Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and the Protect-IP Act (PIPA) would both force websites to pro-actively censor potentially copyrighted information, and could, as Sigal wrote, "inflict broad damage on the work of digital activists living under repressive regimes, as well as restrict basic speech freedoms around the world."
Because these bills have the potential to affect Internet users worldwide, members of the global community have joined Americans in protest.
From German digital rights group Netzpolitik to Open Media Canada to individual bloggers and social media users, the sentiment is the same: Stop these bills.
Blacking out
French site https://linuxfr.org goes dark against #SOPA
Many sites have chosen to express their opposition by blacking out their sites, either entirely or with an interstitial page.
Danica Radovanovic (@DanicaR), writing for Australian blog network DejanSEO, discusses Wikipedia's decision to join the blackout, a decision that affects the site's diverse global community:
Over the course of the past 72 hours, over 1800 Wikipedians have joined together to discuss proposed actions that the community might wish to take against SOPA and PIPA.
This is by far the largest level of participation in a community discussion ever seen on Wikipedia, which illustrates the level of concern that Wikipedians feel about this proposed legislation.
The overwhelming majority of participants support community action to encourage greater public action in response to these two bills.
Of the proposals considered by Wikipedians, those that would result in a “blackout” of the English Wikipedia, in concert with similar blackouts on other websites opposed to SOPA and PIPA, received the strongest support.
French organization La Quadrature du Net has joined its American counterparts in blacking out its website, displaying the following image:
The Pirate Party of Catalunya blacks out in solidarity
Pirate parties are among the most stringent opponents of the anti-piracy bills.
In Spain, Catalunya, Switzerland, Argentina, Canada, and Sweden (among, almost certainly, many others), local pirate parties have joined in blacking out their websites.
Also blacking out for January 18 are Germany's Chaos Computer Club and Green Party, and international organization Reporters Without Borders.
The latter explained its decision, writing:
We have decided to close our English-language website for 24 hours to symbolize the oppressive gag that would spread over the Internet as we know it if SOPA and PIPA are adopted.
These bills would affect an incalculable number of Internet users who are innocent of any kind of intellectual property violation by forcing websites to block access to other sites suspected of vaguely-defined copyright breaches.
For more images of sites blacking out in protest, check out Netzpolitik's SOPA blackout gallery.
Translating the importance of activism
In some countries, bloggers have taken it upon themselves to educate their communities about the importance of opposing SOPA and PIPA.
Lebanese blogger Mireille Raad has written an explanation for why Lebanese citizens should care about these bills.
She writes:
Being a lebanese, doesn’t stop you from being an internet user – the SOPA will affect the internet in a bad way and it involves websites outside the US, and that’s yours... ...You should care and be pissed of, because, like it or not, the internet doesn’t exist in the clouds, it is made of companies that exist in countries and have to answer to local laws despite the fact that internet is “global”.
This fact is making people worldwide care about the SOPA legislation – and even though you may feel powerless, you still should care and take online action – because all citizens in cyberspace are created equal and so their actions resonate equally
An earlier post Taiwanese freedom of information activist CK Hung dubs the anti-piracy bills "The Great Firewall of Chinamerica."
In a graphic , the blogger demonstrates his point:
Edit: An English version of the graphic is also available:
He also writes:
I really do hope #SOPA and #PIPA bills aren't passed through the senate.
Legislation against piracy is needed, but that really isn't the way
Pointing out the participation of Argentine video platform Cuevana, @Gaby_xoa points out:
Nepal: Not a Territory of India! · Global Voices
…not to forget the Nepal territory because Nepal territory is also a part of India…
A recent remark by a moderator of an Indian TV channel had outraged many Nepalis who vented their reactions on different social networking sites.
In a movie review show ETC Bollywood Business anchor and movie analyst Komal Nahta made a statement that Nepal is also part of India while explaining the box office collection for the blockbuster Bollywood movie DON 2.
The video on YouTube posted below also follows a clarification statement by ETC networks on the statement made by Mr. Nahta:
It became a much talked issue on social networks this week and has once again fuelled debate on Nepal-India relations.
As matters got intense online, especially on Twitter mentioning Komal Nahta (@KomalNahta) while discussing his statement, he had to tweet a clarification article and also had to write a convincing blog post by holding his same values.
It was surprising that Komal did not regret his statement on his blog post.
Rather to justify his point, he further claimed those who made such statements were just irate citizens and hardly knew about his business point.
He further added:
Probably, most of the Nepali citizens who created a controversy where none existed, weren’t even aware that Nepal is, in fact, counted as part of India for the express purpose of counting the domestic shares of Bollywood films.
His attitude in responding to others' tweets was also questionable.
Lex Limbu writes:
When I heard that, I felt uneasy as well.
But then I wondered why a grown man, who surely is educated would say such a nothing.
After fishing for clarifications Komal Nahta took to twitter and justified himself .
Fair enough, maybe he did have a point for saying that, but it's annoying now that the millions of geographically challenged Indian viewers will now think that Nepal is actually a territory of India (oh no). It was not just blog posts and website articles on the issues; some YouTube videos were also made against the reporter’s statement. Watch this episode on the topic:
http://youtu.be/xI9BeNHH2_g
This is not the first time that such a controversy has aroused Nepalis to speak against it.
In 1998, Madhuri Dixit, popular Bollywood actor had to apologise when she said that Nepal was once a part of India.
Again in 2000, Hrithik Roshan, another Bollywood actor had to clarify that he had never stated that he hated Nepal and its people.
The Hrithik and Madhuri's case was also covered by BBC News saying, "Movie theatres across Nepal have suspended screening Indian films after an alleged anti-Nepal slur by a Bollywood star."
Recently in a comedy show Stephen Colbert made fun of Nepali identity and culture, which had aroused similar discussions on social media.
I commented in my own blog post:
My view on the topic is that be it film business calculations or industry norm or whatever, it is indeed a blasphemous error.
If it’s industry norms, the reporter should have mentioned that clearly in his show.
Black Women in European Politics: from Struggle to Success · Global Voices
Nowadays, it is a common occcurence to witness African-born women having successful careers in Europe.
Despite the evident challenges, many of them have also distiguished themselves in politics. Still, it was not so long ago that such success would have seemed impossible.
To achieve greatness, these women have often come a long way, both literally and figuratively.
In order to better appreciate the progress made, one needs to think back to the 19th century and consider the image of black women in Europe then.
For the purpose of this article, we will only address the story of women from the African diaspora who have been elected to positions of leadership in countries other than the colonial powers that previously ruled their home countries.
A history of racism Postcard depicting Sarah Baartman, Wikipedia (public domain) The story of the "Hottentot Venus" is symptomatic of the relationship between the West and African women in the last two centuries.
Sébastien Hervieu, an Africa correspondent for Le Monde newspaper in France, tells the story of Sarah Baartman from South Africa, better known as the "Hottentot Venus".
In an article published in October 2010 in his blog afriquedusud.blog.lemonde.fr, he reviews Abdellatif Kechiche's film about her tragic story, Black Venus:
In response to ongoing abuses of women’s rights, Ayaan Hirsi Ali and her supporters established the AHA Foundation in 2007 to help protect and defend the rights of women in the West from oppression justified by religion and culture.
Italy
The first black person to be elected to the Italian parliament is Mercedes Lourdes Frias from the Dominican Republic, in the Caribbean.
This is how she is described on the blogging site Black Women in Europe:
Mercedes Lourdes Frias was born in the Dominican Republic.
She was the first black person elected to the Italian Parliament in 2006 where she served through April 2008.
She was a member of the Commission on Constitutional Affairs and the Parliamentary Committee on the Implementation of the Control of Schengen Agreement, and the Control and Surveillance on Immigration.
She works on anti-racist activities and welcoming immigrants.
From 1994 1997 she was a member of the Council of the Federation of Protestant Churches in Italy.
In the town of Empoli Ms Frias served a councilor for the environment, rights of citizenship, equal opportunities.
The most surprising of the black women to have been elected via universal sufferage or appointed to positions of elevated responsibility in European countries is Sandra Maria (Sandy) Cane, elected in 2009 on a Northern League ticket; the most racist and xenophobic of Italy's political parties.
One of the party's objectives is the secessoin of some of the northern part the Italian peninsula (though the boundary is not clearly undefined) because the party leaders do not like Southern Italians. The blog stranieriinitalia.it (foreigners in Italy) gives a brief outline of her career :
China: A Guangdong Village on the Verge of a Brutal Crackdown · Global Voices
Since September 2011, hundreds of villagers from Wukan village in Guangdong's Lufeng city have begun demonstrating against illegal land acquisition and last week, armed police entered the village and arrested a number of protest organizers.
Yesterday, it was revealed that a leader of the protesting villagers, Xue Jinbo, was found dead in a police detention center three days after his arrest.
Police claimed that he had a heart attack, but his family say Xue was tortured to death.
While the villagers are outraged by the suspected murder of Xue and are prepared to carry on struggles with local authorities, many concerned netizens worry that the incident will develop into bloody repression.
According to reports from Hong Kong newspapers, the piece of collective land involved is worth more than RMB 700 million.
On September 22, Hong Kong developer Chan Man Ching, along with a large number of local gangsters, forcibly entered the village and beat up the protestors.
Thousands of villagers then surrounded the Lufeng county government building on November 21, and local authorities promised villagers that the dispute would be settled village representatives re-elected within 15 days.
However, when the deadline arrive, instead of fulfilling its promise, the local government took action to arrest protest organizers beginning December 3.
In response, the villagers placed the village Communist Party Committee office under siege on December 5.
On December 10, thousands of villagers blocked the road to the village upon receiving the news that the police would take action in making widespread arrests.
Armed police surrounded the village
Xue Jinbo's photo via the Chinese Human Rights Defenders website
Twitter user @milpitas95035 reported on the situation :
Saudi Arabia: A Family Living in a Cemetery · Global Voices
Away from the political scene and on a more human level, a short movie shot by young Saudi filmmaker Bader AlHomoud named "Almagbarah," which translates to cemetery in Arabic, has changed the life of a Saudi family.
Bader describes the montage phase in his tweet : Today I got depressed while editing a movie that will make you all depressed too
The three-minute movie, posted below from YouTube, shows a Saudi family living in a cemetery.
It has no script, nor a dialog. It features members of the family and their children playing around the cemetery and the abject poverty they live in.
Saudi tweeps were emotionally touched by the movie and below are some of their reactions under the hashtag #ma8barah.
@MarwanAlrouqi describes the logic behind the location : Dear Saudi citizen, for your convince we picked you a residence that is far away from the noise and close to your resting place!
A screen shot from the movie
@hayaalshatti asks :
Woe to those who robbed them of their dignity!
And in reaction to the video, which has been watched more than 148,000 times on YouTube, smartman7779 says : This is sad, I cried watching it!
Thank God for my circumstances
Three hours after publishing the movie, Princess Ameerah Al-Taweel, who is Vice-Chairwoman of the Board of Trustees and Head of the Executive Committee of the Al-Waleed bin Talal Foundations, announced on her Twitter account:
@malsahli comments: If the creative Bader did not shed light on this family they would have been still living behind the skyscrapers and forgotten!
and @essamz stresses on the power of the social media:
Two days later, @BaderAlHomoud announces: The family received a car from an anonymous donor
Brazil: Cultural Debate as 'Oh if I Catch You' Song Goes Global · Global Voices
If you keep track of the latest international trends in music, if you are really fond of Brazilian music or if for instance you are a Cristiano Ronaldo supporter, you have probably heard the song 'Ai se eu te pego'.
Or perhaps its English version, 'Oh if I catch you'.
Brazilian singer Michel Teló has begun the year of 2012 with a major worldwide success with this song.
Surprisingly or not, Brazilian netizens have been critical towards Teló’s music to show a certain concern about the international view of Brazilian music these days.
'Ai se eu te pego' has made his way to the top of the international billboards with record-high marks of downloads on iTunes.
The most impressive marks are definitely in Europe, where Teló has reached number one in Portugal, Italy and Spain, countries where he will soon present his hit song in his first international tour.
Michel Teló in concert.
Shared via Wikipedia under CC BY-SA 2.0 license.
From Brazil to Telobalization
Michel Teló, 30 years old, represents sertanejo universitário (university sertanejo), the newest subgenre of 'sertanejo', a musical genre with roots in the caipira culture of south-central Brazil.
Football players have adopted the song for celebrating goals.
Brazilian footballer Neymar (of Santos F.C.) has even appeared on the videoclip.
Marcelo Vieira and Cristiano Ronaldo (of Real Madrid C.F.) celebrated a goal dancing the song's choreography in October 2011.
Europe in crisis (feat. Michel Teló)
Others are making very creative versions of Teló's music, such as the following video, adapting the lyrics to say "Troika, Troika, you're gonna kill me", in a complaint against the austerity policies impacting the lives of Portuguese citizens imposed by the International Monetary Fund, European Central Bank and European Commission:
The Europe crisis seems to be a common joke take on Teló's music.
Some suggest this might be the reason for his success in the continent.
Brazilian user Valdete da Silva (@amigavaldete) tweeted a similar assessment:
South Korea: Activist Indicted for Retweeting North Korean Messages · Global Voices
South Korean prosecutors indicted a photographer and freedom-of-speech activist last week on charges of violating national security law, for retweeting messages posted by an official North Korean government Twitter account.
Despite the international media's widespread coverage, the case went seriously under-reported in South Korean media.
This case has sparked another round of debate on the controversial national security law, which prohibits "acts benefiting the enemy" without specifying what constitutes such acts.
Controversial tweets
Park Jung-geun, 23, was detained last month, but the incident actually goes back to September 2010, when police raided his photo studio in Seoul.
According to one news report , Park, from 2010 March to January 2011, with his two Twitter accounts (@seouldecadence, @dprkdecadence), retweeted about 102 messages originally tweeted by North Korean Twitter account @uriminzok.
He also tweeted 30 links that led to North Korean video content.
Twitter profile image of user @windburial, the user switched to this image created by Park in order to show his support to Park.
The overall number of Park's "problematic" tweets is 384, which is only about 0.5 per cent of his entire tweets.
In his trial, these tweets were depicted as "an expression of an agreement with the enemy's (referring to North Korea) propaganda" and were accused of "promoting the enemy's messages".
Park claimed his retweets were a joke made to lampoon the North Korean regime and explained that the misunderstanding rose from reading his tweets out of context.
For instance, Park tweeted a tweaked image of a North Korean poster (see right).
Using a typically North Korean poster, which are usually aggressive, warmongering and whose major color is red, Park replaced the soldier's face with his own face and the rifle with a bottle of whisky.
In another example, Park compared himself to North Korea's new heir, Kim Jong-un, since like Kim, he had 'inherited' something from his father, which in Park's case is a photo studio.
South Korean media silence
What has baffled South Koreans however, is that although the police raided Park's studio last year and there has been quite strong opposition against the case online (including the creation of Internet photo memes of Park), recent updates have mostly come from the international media.
Until local media reported about this unusual flow of information, Park's indictment was fairly new to the South Korean general public.
Hong Sung-soo (@sungsooh) tweeted :
Caribbean: Looking Back on 2011 · Global Voices
The regional blogosphere in 2011 saw a few territories, most notably Cuba, taking front and centre - especially when it came to digital activism.
The rest of the Caribbean meanwhile, grappled with everything from homophobia to states of emergency, weathered hurricanes and questioned the boundaries of online privacy, discussed a plane crash and World AIDS Day and became ardent fans of Project Runway.
Here's a quick look at what our Spanish Language Editor, Firuzeh Shokooh Valle and I agreed was noteworthy this year...
Haiti - Earthquake recovery, Aristide & elections
As physically and economically ravaged Haiti struggled to find its bearings a year after the January 12, 2010 earthquake, Twitter was full of tweets bearing the hashtags #remember #Haiti as netizens recalled the devastation and spared a thought for earthquake victims and survivors alike.
The country was soon to face another strange reality in the form of ousted dictator Jean Claude Duvalier's curiously timed return to his homeland.
There was soon talk of an impending arrest for acts of corruption during his tenure, but although charges were filed, the case soon appeared to fall by the wayside, reportedly because the statute of limitations had expired.
Tent city, Juvenat, by caribbeanfreephoto, used under an Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 2.0 Generic Creative Commons License.
A couple of months later, the country's elections took centre stage, with reports of election threats and subsequent violence.
As it turned out, the candidate accused of leveling those threats, Michel Martelly, popularly known by the moniker "Sweet Micky", went on to claim victory in the polls.
Throughout the earthquake and election turmoil, frustration continued to mount against the United Nations presence in Haiti (MINUSTAH), partly as a result of its troops being responsible for an outbreak of cholera that killed thousands of Haitians, and partly for their crimes against the Haitian people.
Cuba - Deaths of dissident and Las Damas leader and reforms
The (albeit measured) jubilation over the release of Cuban political prisoners in 2010 soon turned to sadness following the death of opposition member Juan Wilfredo Soto Garcia.
Local dissidents insisted that he had been beaten by police, while the government maintained that Soto's “acute pancreatitis…led to multiple organ failure”, even calling the allegations of police brutality a “'smear campaign' aimed at weakening the Cuban revolution.”
The incident called into question modus operandi of the Cuban government, especially considering its routine crackdowns on Las Damas de Blanco, one of the most respected opposition movements on the island, whose members comprise the wives of prisoners of conscience.
The Ladies in White were soon thrust into the spotlight again - this time because of the hospitalization of the group's vibrant leader, Laura Pollan, who subsequently passed away.
The official cause of death was an unidentified infection that reportedly turned out to be dengue fever, but some camps suggested that her treatment may have been sub-standard because of her political stance.
Even as tributes poured in for the late human rights activist, bloggers expressed concern for the safety of other Cuban dissidents, given the climate of apparent state-sanctioned aggression against them. #TwitHab 2011.
Photo by Elaine Díaz.
One of the high points in the Cuban blogosphere this year was the first meeting of users of the social network Twitter #TwitHab, held last July in Havana at 23rd and 12th of the Vedado district and in the Pabellón Cuba.
The event hosted almost 100 people, mostly young journalism students, administrators, professors, journalists and bloggers, among others.
The event was not free of controversy; nevertheless, Twitter has evidently served as an interesting venue for expression, debate and solidarity.
The sixth congress of the Communist Party of Cuba (PCC), held in Havana from April 16-19, marked a turning point for the Cuban economic system, and for Cuban society at large.
Party members approved measures to institute term limits for top party and government leaders, legalize home ownership and sales, and restructure state salaries so that they will be determined in part by the amount and quality of labor performed by workers.
Dominican Republic - Drugs, hurricanes and gold medals
Last November, the Partido de la Liberación Dominicana (PLD-Dominican Liberation Party) nominated Margarita Cedeño, the wife of current president Leonel Fernández, to run for vice-president in the next elections.
The drug connection between the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico has also made headlines this year: September saw was the sentencing of the infamous Figueroa Acosta case , considered one of the most scandalous cases of drug trafficking in both these islands.
At the start of the hurricane season, Hurricane Irene devastated the north coast of Dominican Republic leaving approximately 30,000 affected and 11,000 people displaced. (The storm also affected the Bahamas).
Finally, it was a great year in sports: the Dominican Republic achieved a historical record of medals in the past edition of the Pan-American Games held in Guadalajara, Mexico, with seven gold, nine silver, and 17 bronze medals in 26 events.
Trinidad and Tobago - State of emergency
In August, many netizens were taken aback at the unexpected declaration of a state of emergency, ostensibly to deal with the country's rising crime rate.
Nicholas Laughlin summed up the general feeling by pointing out that "this legal step, which affects a broad range of civil rights, has triggered widespread debate about the roots of violent crime in Trinidad and Tobago and the implications of the government's latest strategy."
The government's gaffes resulted in confusion and mounting frustration; bloggers vented online here and here.
When the state of emergency finally came to an end and as expected, violent crime rebounded, the citizenry was left wondering what it achieved, if anything at all.
Puerto Rico - Domestic violence and crime, the arts and sports
The year 2011 was the most violent in the Island’s history with 1,136 murders as of early in the day December 31 , a 15% increase from 2010.
Twenty-six women were murdered (eight cases are still under investigation) by their partners or ex-partners, one of the highest rates in years.
The feminist movement and a group of active feminist bloggers have been at the forefront, denouncing the state’s lack of action against domestic violence.
The United States Justice Department also accused the Puerto Rico Police Department of a pattern of civil rights violations and illegal practices.
On the other hand, it was a wonderful year for the arts and sports.
The Puerto Rican hip hop duo Calle 13 achieved a record in the most recent Latin Grammy Awards where they won nine awards for their most recent album “Entren los que quieran” for a record of a total of 19 Latin Grammys in their career.
Their beautiful song “Latinoamérica” has already become a kind of an anthem for Latin Americans all over the world.
In sports, the Puerto Rican professional basketball player José Juan Barea became one of the most beloved national icons after winning the 2011 US National Basketball Association’s (NBA) Championship playing for the Mavericks team from Dallas, Texas (check this short video on Barea’s life).
Farewells
Finally, Caribbean bloggers were eloquent in their farewells to some luminary people, both home-grown and international.
Trinidad and Tobago lost an environmental champion with the passing of Professor Julian Kenny, as well as an important cultural icon with the death of Dr. Pat Bishop.
Remembrances also poured in as tech-minded bloggers learned of the death of Apple co-founder Steve Jobs and wrote about how his visionary products helped to transform their work and their lives.
The human rights activist Sonia Pierre died on December 4.
She was 48. Pierre dedicated her life to advocate for the rights of Haitians living in the Dominican Republic and of Dominicans of Haitian origin.
Pierre was the founder of MUDHA — Movimiento De Mujeres Dominico-Haitiana or Movement of Dominican Haitian Women.
She is remembered as a courageous activist who fought against racism and sexism all her life.
More to look forward to
We have no doubt that in 2012, Caribbean bloggers will have a lot more to talk about - the outcome of Jamaica's recently-held general elections is just one topic that comes to mind - and we look forward to following the regional blogosphere as we continue to strive to facilitate a meaningful exchange of ideas.
Firuzeh Shokooh Valle contributed to this post.
In the Cuba section, excerpts from posts by GV authors Ellery Biddle and Elaine Díaz are included.
Thanks to Emil Rodríguez Garabot for his help on the section on Dominican Republic.
Spain: Police Violence Against Students in Valencia · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis. At the Luis Vives Institute of Secondary Education in Valencia (#IESLluisVives), students gathered to protest against the cuts that the Ministry is carrying out and, above all, because they have to bring blankets to the school due to lack of heating.
Many instances of tension occurred at the Institute due to unjustified police attacks, instructed by the Government Delegate Paula Sánchez de León, which resulted in ten detained students.
Below we present a series of videos about the violent incident, which have been circulating on the social networks.
Digital media and social networks were, once again, an important platform for exchanges of information, reports, and debate.
Philippines: Protest Against Removal of Trees by Shopping Mall · Global Voices
The plan of SM City Baguio shopping mall in north Philippines to remove more than 100 trees to make way for a new parking lot and entertainment site has been greeted by massive protests from concerned citizens and various cause-oriented groups.
SM is owned by the Philippines' richest businessman.
Thousands marched through the streets of Baguio City last January 20, to defend the trees and call on the public to boycott SM City Baguio.
The hashtag #ProtectBaguiotrees became the top Twitter trend in the country that day.
Take Me to the Riot makes the Joni Mitchel song refrain "They paved paradise to put up a parking lot" the starting point of her musings on the issue:
Funnily, it feels like the entire history of that mountain is all about uprooting and displacement.
Tribes – like the Kankanaey, Igorots, and Ifugao - were uprooted from the heart of the city and were displaced to other places.
Some had to move to other areas in Benguet.
These people, like those trees, have been around older than any SM Baguio, 7-11 or McDonald’s in Session rd.
But commercialism, in this case parking lots, are always stronger–enough to uproot and displace those who have known the land longer and maybe even more intimately.
Protest in front of SM Baguio.
Photo from @KrissyAngela
A Mommy Who Tries Living Life to the Fullest!, inspired by the pro-environment Wall-E 3D animation, points out the lack of significant difference between uprooting and transferring the trees and cutting them down.
These promises are good if you don't know what happened to the past trees that were being earth balled.
Dr. Michael Bengwayan (executive director of Cordillera Ecological Center-PINE TREE) said that, for the 497 pine trees that were being earth-balled by Camp John Hay Development Corp. last 1994, only less than 20% survived and those not dead were showing signs of deteriorating.
So, we should expect that out of the 187 Pine Trees that will be uprooted, more or less only 30 trees will survive.
Baguio City residents decry the lack of public consultations and are questioning the issuance of permit to the mall for the removal of the trees.
Student writers hit the government's connivance with big business:
Worse, even the current administration sanctions this one-sided step and seems to refuse in protecting the interests of the larger population.
President Aquino along with city officials themselves shows no disapproval of this plan and the DENR issued the permit for the implementation.
Stretching the Symbolic meanwhile concludes that the cause is ultimately against the "world capitalist system":
This is not just a battle for the trees, or against SM corporations and their corporate greed; this is a battle for our people, of Baguio and the country, against the large system where tree-cutting projects like this are just one of the numerous evil manifestations.
This is fight against a system where things are done for the benefit of a few and at the expense of the many.
Global: Vigils in Solidarity with Tibetans · Global Voices
Since early February 2012, a series of global vigils have taken place in all over the world to express solidarity with Tibetans, following a call from Kalong Tripa Dr. Lobsang Sangay.
As February 22 is the Tibetan New Year, activists are calling for another round of solidarity action.
A map on global vigils in solidarity with Tibetans on February 8, 2012.
Ever since the invasion of Tibet, the Chinese government has claimed that it seeks to create a socialist paradise.
However, basic human rights are being denied to Tibetans, the fragile environment is being destroyed, Tibetan language and culture is being assimilated, portraits of His Holiness the Dalai Lama are banned, and Tibetans are being economically marginalized.
Tibet is in virtual lockdown.
Foreigners have been barred from travelling to Tibet now and the entire region is essentially under undeclared martial law.
I urge the Chinese leadership to heed the cries of the Tibetan protestors and those who have committed self-immolation.
You will never address the genuine grievances of Tibetans and restore stability in Tibet through violence and killing.
The only way to resolve the Tibet issue and bring about lasting peace is by respecting the rights of the Tibetan people and through dialogue.
As someone deeply committed to peaceful dialogue, the use of violence against Tibetans is unacceptable and must be strongly condemned by all people in China and around the world.
I call on the international community to show solidarity and to raise your voices in support of the fundamental rights of the Tibetan people at this critical time.
I request that the international community and the United Nations send a fact-finding delegation to Tibet and that the world media be given access to the region as well.
The leaders in Beijing must know that killing its own "family members" is in clear violation of international and Chinese laws, and such actions will cast further doubts on China's moral legitimacy and their standing in world affairs.
During Chinese Vice President Xi Jingping's visit to the United States last week, Tibetan activists greeted Xi and the group of organized supporters with stories about human rights conditions in China.
Below is a YouTube video taken on February 15 in Muscatine, Iowa:
As the Tibetan New Year is approaching, a number of Hong Kong activists have organized a candle night vigil outside the China Government Liaison Office to mourn for those Tibetans who have self-immolated to call for a free Tibet.
In addition, more than 240 have signed up for a Butter Lamp Pray event* to express their solidarity with Tibetans:
In Tibet, from 27 Feb 2009 to 19 Feb 2012, 23 Tibetans have self-immolated to protest for a free Tibet and the return of The Dalai Lama. 15 of them had lost their lives.
Under the repressive circumstance in Tibet, self-immolation is an ultimate act of nonviolence demonstration.
Tibet question seems so far away from us, but as a human being, it doesn’t mean that we can do nothing. At least, we should pray for the death.
One of the spiritual practices among Tibetan Buddhists is to offer a lighted butter lamp that represents the illumination of wisdom and to purify bad Karma.
Following their belief, we shall also light for the Tibetans who have self-immolated and pray for Tibet.
* Disclosure: the writer has been added as a host of the Butter Lamp Pray Facebook event.
Thumbnail and featured image shows annual Tibet Freedom March in central London, UK, by sinister pictures, copyright Demotix (12/03/11).
Greece: "I Signed the IMF Memorandum Without Having Read It" · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis.
Shock and awe awaited Greek citizens on Monday January 23, 2012, when Louka Katseli, former minister of labour and social security (2010) and minister of economy, competitiveness and shipping (2009), revealed that she had had only three hours to read the IMF memorandum tackling the country's debt crisis.
Michalis Chrysochoidis, current minister for development, competitiveness and shipping and former minister of citizen protection, admitted on a morning television show interview that he signed the IMF memorandum without having read it at all, arguing that "simply, he had other obligations during that time, as he was fighting against crime":
Minister Manolis Chrysochoidis.
Photo by Flickr user Piazza del Popolo (CC BY 2.0).
News spread quickly on the web reacting to the remarks, including extremely negative comments and derogatory insults from netizens, expressing their disdain for the political system, and mocking the minister's excuse.
Within one to two hours, the case became a world trending topic via the Twitter hashtag #de_diavasa_to_mnimonio_giati (I didn't read the memorandum because...):
@northaura: Now whole twitter "parties" with the "I didn't read the Memorandum" statement of Min. Crysochoidis, in hashtag #De_diavasa_to_mnimonio_giati
Global Voices Author and Editor Asteris Masouras (@asteris) made a Storify collection of various posts, photos and tweets.
Below listed are some samples of Greek netizens' tweets and comments:
@ngeor: #De_diavasa_to_mnimonio_giati I was elected to lead, not to read. @Stathisgr: Mnimonio? LoL, Too busy beating protesters
I want to clarify and confirm my point.
Yes, I repeat that I didn't read the memorandum.
I didn't deal with either the text or the procedures of "supposedly" negotiations.
This wasn't declared with pride.
Even more, I don;t say this in order to shirk responsibilities.
On the contrary.
I consider this as one of the biggest errors of my political career; because I appreciated wrongly those critical moments and I was preoccupied with the minor issue, my work as a minister, instead of the major one, my responsibility as a member of the country's leadership.
I said that to stress how much everyone has to change.
We used to trust every leader, every prime minister; to vote in the Parliament and to agree in the government.
Those times belong to the past and this model faded.
What is needed is collectivity, personal responsibility and contribution.
During last year, the government and members of parliament have been the target of heavy criticism for their acceptance of the IMF memorandum and their inaction against the socio-economic crisis of the country, which has urged many of them to defend their beliefs and political actions.
Another "disclaimer statement" was made on October 2011 by former PASOK MP Thomas Rompopoulos, who argued during a radio show broadcast: "Nobody had the time to read the Memorandum, neither I did nor anybody did; We authorized Papakonstantinou to sign for it.
It was a matter of trust":
In addition to the bold accusations Minister Chrysochoidis himself received, many netizens via social media have also criticized the general political scene, but also the "blindness" of they themselves, who have been conniving with the politicians' foul actions:
@helena_chari: greece doesn't need weapons of mass destruction; it's got its politicians
Italy: Historic 'Guilty' Verdict in the Eternit Asbestos Trial · Global Voices
A historic verdict has been delivered in Italy in the Eternit trial on the deadly consequences of asbestos.
The bosses of multinational Eternit had put the lives of their workers in danger and committed environmental crimes.
However, many people doubted that they would be convicted for their crimes. Yet this is what happened on February 13, 2012 in Turin, northern Italy.
The two top senior executives of Eternit were sentenced to 16 years in prison; legal proceedings began in 2009.
The judges indicted Stephan Schmidheiny, former owner of Eternit, and Louis de Cartier de Marchienne, former director of the Italian branch, as responsible for around 3,000 asbestos-related deaths, particularly in Casale Monferrato and its surrounding areas.
They are also granted compensation to the victims, their families and civil society associations, and tens of millions of euros to some 6,000 plaintiffs.
The sentence was welcomed by hundreds of relatives and victims of asbestos poisoning, as well as by the representatives of the victims’ foreign associations.
Tribute to those who died from asbestos, in front of the Fibronit establishment in Casal Monferrato - Photo by Ro-buk: 'I' m not there on Flickr', reproduced under a Creative Commons CC-BY license
The website Swissinfo gives some additional details on the verdict :
Also, public prosecutors in other countries may study the Turin trial as a precedent for bringing their own criminal trials against directors of national Eternit subsidiaries.
According to experts, the product will continue to kill for a long time to come.
The website Sanita in Cifre shows the extent of this risk in Europe and also in the rest of the world:
The President of Naples Province, Luigi Cesaro, listed the death bulletin from the Bagnoli factory:
134 deaths from lung cancer 9 deaths from larynx cancer 258 deaths from asbestosis 65 deaths from mesothelioma
as well as 100 workers still ill from the above illnesses.
Antonio Iaccarino, son of two patients contaminated in the town of Bagnoli wrote on the Facebook page Sentenza Processo Eternit :
Italy: New Volunia Search Engine Intrigues Blogosphere · Global Voices
Volunia is a brand new search engine which encourages interaction between people searching for the same topics in different languages.
Although news of its creation was made public just a few days ago, on Monday 6 February, 2012, Volunia has already caused a stir in the blogosphere, ranging from enthusiasm to disappointment in many languages.
The new search engine tool was created by an Italian professor of Computer Science.
Jean-Marie of website presse-citron.net seemed amazed not only that the project had seen the light of day, but also that it had originated within a university:
Deriving from the Italian words volo (flying) and luna (moon), Volunia is the fruitful result of three years of hard work put in by Marchiori.
On the blog abondance.com Olivier Andrieu gave his opinion following a performance review of this new search engine:
To me, everything from Volunia so far seems to suggest it’s trying to solve a problem that nobody needs to solve right now.
I can’t wait to see it open up and find out whether I’m right or wrong.
This opinion was also shared by Jian who posted this comment after the article:
I am a power user too and tried it.
You said well, it does look like it is trying to solve a problem that doesn’t exist yet.
But anyway, I hope it could make an impact, since we don’t want to have just a Google to take over the whole market…
Another reader of this article, Nebil Kriedi, not sharing this opinion, responded:
A problem which doesn’t exists?
Do you really think that searching for something on the web ends up on showing a dozen of links like most search engine does?
I personally think that your search ends when you find the CONTENT you’re looking for, not just a stupid and chaotic html.
For what I saw, volunia seems to be be designed for that kind of search, a search which brings you straight on the content by following your navigation inside the website.
The idea behind its design (awful) it’s brilliant to me and I hope the execution would be fine too.
A user named Liz left the following comment:
I like the idea of a way to interact with other visitors on a page.
Question is how would it be monitored for security and safety reasons?
I’m always curious who will rival G. The bigger you are the harder you fall… eventually…
After analysing the various aspects of this new search engine, online services specialist Paola Bonomo highlighted the new features which set it apart from other search engines.
She did not seem terribly impressed in her review on her blog pandemia.info:
Volunia adds new concepts and ideas about the web, also it adds the "Social" concept to the search engine.
Also Google is doing it, with its +1 and G+ but I prefer the Volunia way, it feels closest to real life.
A Russian social media blog smm-promo.ru warned :
Maldives: On the Brink of Chaos · Global Voices
Three years after the first democratic multiparty election in the Maldives ushered a democratic government to power, the infant democracy of the Maldives seems to be on the brink of anarchy and chaos.
The democratic experiment of the Maldives could face an untimely demise as thugs belonging to the ruling party and the opposition clash on the streets of the capital Male', vandalising private property, torching private TV stations and attacking one another under showers of bricks and stones.
A rebellion within the ranks of police officers has created a nasty stand-off between the military and the police and a number of military personnel have joined the police in mutiny.
Tension has reached a tipping point when there are conflicting reports about whether the president will resign.
The political crisis facing the Maldives was given a head-start in January when the government asked the police to start investigations against certain opposition leaders for what the government claimed were baseless insinuations and allegations that the government was undermining the Islamic faith of the country.
Critics were puzzled when the police detained said opposition leaders in high profile investigation cases while the claims of the opposition could have been addressed through a civil case of defamation.
The ruling Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) then started a public campaign named 'Thiheneh Nukiyeyne' (You Can't Say That), proclaiming that the party would not permit the opposition to continue making what it believed to be baseless allegations.
In the past, defamation was a criminal act and writers and individuals were sentenced to prison, based on defamation charges, for criticism they had expressed.
Decriminalizing defamation in 2009 was hailed as a remarkable improvement for freedom of expression in the Maldives.
The government's inclination towards criminal investigations regarding cases of defamation has become a deep concern for advocates of free speech.
After the Abdulla Mohamed, the Chief Judge of the Criminal Court ruled that the detention of the Vice President of the Dhivehi Qaumee Party (DQP) was illegal and ordered to release him from police custody, the police requested the assistance of the Maldives National Defence Force or the military to apprehend the judge.
Mohamed has been under military custody since January 16 and his enforced disappearance has sparked street protests which has continued for three weeks.
Mohamed himself had been in the centre of several controversies earlier and the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) has found that he had violated the code of conduct for judges.
Mohamed appealed this decision of the JSC in the Civil Court, and the court has issued an injunction against JSC not to take any disciplinary measures against Mohamed till the appeal case is closed.
This injunction by the Civil Court itself is highly controversial because it encroaches on the powers the constitution has granted to JSC to make the judiciary accountable.
The government has since then claimed that the detention of Mohamed is part of its campaign to clean up the judiciary, which is corrupt to the core, according to the government.
Mohamed's detention in a military training camp has been declared unlawful and a violation of the constitution by several parties which point out that the military does not have legal authority to detain people.
The government has not put any formal charges against Mohamed.
The military claims that it has provided Mohamed with access to a lawyer and it has permitted the Human Rights Commission of the Maldives to visit him.
His family was informed about his whereabouts only days after he was detained.
A number of eminent lawyers in the Maldives have spoken out against the detention of Judge Abdulla Mohamed.
Among them are Shaheen Hameed, the Vice President of the Constituent Assembly which drafted the current constitution, Dhiyana Saeed, the first Attorney-General of the present government and Husnu Suood, another former Attorney-General under the present government.
Prosecutor-General Ahmed Muizzu, who was a prominent practicing lawyer of the country before his appointment as PG, has also pointed out that the detention is unlawful.
Ahmed Faiz, the Chief Justice, has called for the judge to be released.
The Human Rights Commission of the Maldives has also expressed concerns about the continued detention of the judge. The UN has urged the government of the Maldives to either release the judge or to press formal charges against him.
Abbas Faiz, South Asia Researcher at Amnesty International, in an opinion piece published in the local Minivan News website, has said that the judge's detention is arbitrary.
“Amnesty International is calling on the government to either bring formal criminal charges against him or release him,” Faiz wrote.
Tension has reached a tipping point when protesters from the ruling party and the opposition parties clashed on February 6 evening leading to considerable violence.
Thereafter, some police units stormed the assembly hall of the ruling party and allegedly vandalised property there.
A group of police officers have rebelled against what they say are unlawful commands and gathered after midnight at the Republic Square in Male' in protest.
In a night filled with violence, the offices of VTV, a private broadcaster which is sympathetic towards the opposition and is owned by an opposition leader, was set on fire by a group of thugs.
Aminath Shifleen, a journalist at Haveeru Daily, was injured while covering the protest.
In the past few weeks, a number of journalists have been attacked during the protests and offices of media outlets have been attacked on multiple occasions.
Private property destruction has also been a common feature of the protests that has engulfed the Maldives.
In the early hours of the morning some people are still active on social media, expressing their opinion on the unfolding crisis.
This Facebook page titled Zuvaanunge' Maidhaan (The Square of Youth) has some pictures of the protests.
There are frequent updates in Twitter:
Husnu Suood, former Attorney-General, tweets:
@hsuood: dont think they can avoid a bloody confrontation.
Sad day for Maldives. #mvprotest Nattu tweets: Maldives National Defence Force vs Maldives Police #mvprotest.
MNDF steps back.
Hard thing r pretty nasty in #Maldives
Ali Tholhath says:
@tholhath: Sad day for Maldives.
Stop this madness.
Ali Shiyan tweets:
@falho_D: Sad to see it all come to this, who is winning now?
And to think it cud hav been so simple,sad day for Maldives indeed.
Shareef asks:
@shareef: Things are getting worse, #Maldives Army V/s Maldives Police.
Who will Win
Agisa asks:
@agisaa: what happened to the #maldives while i was sleeping? Sofwathullah Mohamed tweets:
God save Maldives. #mvprotest
Maldives Military joins forces with police and the public against the unconstitutional rule of Mr Nasheed.
Image posted to Twitter by @AhmedAffanShafy
Mexico: Citizen Initiative to the Clear the Streets of Election Trash · Global Voices
Every three years, the streets of Mexico are plastered with a thick layer of unending advertisements sporting images of smiling candidates for a variety of elected positions, each promoting his/her image, name and recycled campaign slogans.
The elections are held, the campaigns draw to a close, and yet the advertisements remain for days, weeks and even months - forming part of the urban landscape.
This year, when the pre-election period in the Federal District (DF) ended and citizens began to pressure Mayor Marcelo Ebrard to immediately remove the trash, he responded:
Uganda has again re-tabled the controversial anti-gay bill.
Ugandan member of parliament, David Bahati, who proposed the bill back in 2009 has again considered tabling the draconian bill but with changes.
He claims to have dropped the death penalty and jailing of family members who fail to report homosexuals to the authorities.
RedPepper reported :
Ndorwa West Member of Parliament David Nahati behind the proposed draconian anti-gay bill that sparked an international outcry has said he wants to drop clauses that would see the death penalty introduced for homosexual acts.
“There will be no death penalty at all…that will go,” Bahati said.
Bahati said he wanted to scrap proposals to punish “aggravated homosexuality,” which includes someone deemed to be a “serial offender” with the death sentence.
The report continued:
However Bahati said the proposed legislation was already in the process of being changed, following recommendations made during the last parliament.
“The death penalty is not part of the process that we are talking about,” Bahati said, adding he was also dropping proposals to jail family members if they failed to report gay relatives to the authorities.
However, Warren Throckmorton noted that the death penalty has not been removed from the bill:
As an aside, the BBC just can’t seem to get their reporting right.
They again are reporting that the death penalty has been removed from the bill.
Yesterday, Parliament spokeswoman Helen Kadaga told me that the bill was the same as was introduced in 2009.
Bahati has said he would be open to removing the death penalty but this has never been done.
In a 2011 report done by the Legal and Parliamentary Affairs committee, the death penalty remained in the bill.
This morning I got additional confirmation that the original bill without amendments was introduced yesterday from Charles Tuhaise, Parliamentary Research Service staffer.
Tuhaise said that all proposed changes to a Bill are first brought to the floor of Parliament where they are debated by the MPs.
Any revisions are accepted to a bill after a majority votes in support of the revision.
For now, the original bill is with the Legal and Parliamentary Affairs committee without amendment.
Melanie Nathan blogged:
Reports are divided as to whether the Bill will include the death penalty as initially tabled.
Many believe the Bill cannot pass in its current form, as it is too onerous and controversial, yet members of Parliament remain defiantly homophobic and either way the future for LGBT people in Uganda is clearly in danger.
Ugandans in Parliament who remain defiant and determined to pass the legislation, do not seem to care at this point whether or not the death penalty is finally excluded as they express homophobia and ignorance in no uncertain terms
In May last year, Warren discussed section 3 of the bill, which deals with the death penalty:
For now, I am going to focus on section three of the report which is where the death penalty can be found.
Here is section 3 from the bill:
Aggravated homosexuality.
(1) A person commits the offense of aggravated homosexuality where the
(a) person against whom the offence is committed is below the age of 18 years;
(b) offender is a person living with HIV;
(c) offender is a parent or guardian of the person against whom the offence is committed;
(d) offender is a person in authority over the person against whom the offence is committed;
(e) victim of the offence is a person with disability;
(f) offender is a serial offender, or
(g) offender applies, administers or causes to be used by any man or woman any drug, matter or thing with intent to stupefy overpower him or her so as to there by enable any person to have unlawful carnal connection with any person of the same sex,
(2) A person who commits the offence of aggravated homosexuality shall be liable on conviction to suffer death.
(3) Where a person is charged with the offence under this section, that person shall undergo a medical examination to ascertain his or her HIV status.
Call Me Kuchu is a documentary that focuses on gay rights in Uganda.
Image source: Call Me Kuchu Facebook page.
The bill has ridiculous clauses such as revoking registration of NGOs promoting or distributing homosexual materials and jailing the director, jailing persons who say they are married to a person of the same sex and prohibiting Uganda from becoming a party to any new international instruments that expressly include protection for homosexual behavior.
Donors threatened to cut aid to Uganda citing that infringing rights and freedom of gays:
Gay sex is illegal in Uganda and MPs supported their colleague to have it banned.
However, human rights activists and the international community protested the Bill saying it was infringing on the rights and freedom of gays.
The donors also threatened to cut their aid to Uganda if such a Bill was passed into law.
The bill does not make sense, said the former South African president Thabo Mbeki:
“I mean what would you want?
It doesn’t make sense at all.
That is what I would say to the MP.
What two consenting adults do is really not the matter of law,” he said.
Mr Mbeki also responded to a series of questions about the failure of Africa’s present day intellectuals to cultivate ideas for progressive movement of change on the continent and the weakness of the African Union in defending and promoting the interests of Africans.
Help Stop Uganda anti-gay bill.
Image source: www.humanrightsfirst.org/
Some churches in Uganda are against the bill:
“I am very disappointed with the return of the bill,” former Anglican Bishop Christopher Ssenyonjo of West Buganda told ENInews in a telephone interview on Feb. 8 from Kampala, Uganda’s capital.
A significant change is the removal of the provision for the death penalty, but the new bill still increases to life imprisonment the punishment for homosexual activity, which is illegal in Uganda, with many faith leaders rejecting it as sinful and contrary to Scripture.
Melanie Nathan interviewed David Bahati:
I asked about the death penalty and he told me that the Bill will be first introduced in its original form.
What happens after that, he said, “would please you people as it would be more moderate.”
Yet he could not confirm what would be changed.
He told me that the most important thing is that once the Bill passes there can be no more “promotion of that behavior” in Uganda.
That the government will clamp down on organizations and NGO’s which promote homosexuality.
He said, “but don’t worry the bill will not be harmful to you people; and it will protect the children of Uganda.
“ We cannot mess up the future of our children.”
He told me that Ugandans will not be blackmailed by the West.
He said that the West is bringing the idea of homosexuality to Ugandan and telling Africans what to do about homosexuality and that he said is “Imperialism; we will not be blackmailed by your few dollars.”
I asked Bahati about tourism, “are you concerned people will stop visiting Uganda if you pass the Bill?”
He said, “no Uganda has been voted the best destination in Africa last year.
I am not worried about that.”
He told me that the purpose of the Anti-homosexuality Bill is to “protect our children from promotion of that behavior.”
I then asked what about consenting adult in private.
He said that is outlawed “because they are doing the wrong thing.”
Mark Widdicombe pointed out that the bill is based on a false premise:
Apart from the barbarity of penalties envisioned, the entire Bill is based on a false premise.
The first paragraph of the Bill states:
This legislation further recognizes the fact that same sex attraction is not an innate and immutable characteristic.
But same sex attraction has been shown in numerous peer-reviewed research papers to be precisely an innate and immutable characteristic. Here are some examples.
But even if homosexuality were a choice and not an immutable characteristic, it would still not be excusable to pass legislation of this sort which seeks to criminalise consensual sexual behaviour between adults.
It seems reasonable to ask why Mr Bahati has such an antipathy to those who prefer the caresses of their own sex.
He says it’s because homosexuality was introduced to Africa by the colonial powers, and he wants it eradicated and Africa’s traditional strong family values reasserted.
An examination of African folklore, as, for example, embodied in Indaba, My Children by Credo Mutwa gives the lie to that assertion.
Homosexuality was known millennia before the arrival of European colonists, and was well tolerated.
As part of a global campaign to support gay rights in Uganda, a documentary called Call Me Kuchu has been released:
Filmed over the course of two years during three visits to Uganda starting January 2010, Call Me Kuchu is a documentary that focuses on gay rights (to be precise – the absence of them) in the “Pearl of Africa”.
Co-directed by video journalist Malika Zouhali-Worrall and award-winning photographer Katherine Fairfax Wright, the film premiered yesterday, 11th February in the 62ndinternational Berlin Film Festival Panorama Documentary programme.
This film follows the life of David Katos, Uganda’s first openly gay activist, and his pledge against the Anti-Homosexuality Bill that religious groups in Uganda were trying to pass in 2011.
Devoid of one of the basic human rights – the right to openly love whoever they wish, and not be afraid of getting killed on the street or be imprisoned for 7 years because of that, as the Bill would allow – David and three fellow activists (“kuchus”, as homosexuals are called in Uganda) share their painful life stories and day-to-day encouragements.
They believe the situation can one day be changed, if they only keep fighting and take pride in who they are.
At the same time one of the most popular Uganda’s tabloids, Rolling Stone, keeps printing hateful articles that disclose gays who did not wish to come out of the closet under the current situation, and openly encourages violent acts against them.
Human rights activists have created an online petition, Stop The Kill The Gays Bill, as part of their campaign to stop the bill.
Here is the full text of the Anti-Homosexuality Bill 2009.
Africa: Vote for the Most Influential African Thinker Alive · Global Voices
Who is the most influential African thinker alive?
Africa is a Country blog wants readers to vote for one influential African thinker from a list of 12 candidates. Sean Jacobs writes about the origin of the idea:
I got the initial idea from the British blog, Left Foot Forward, which had run a contest to determine “the most influential leftwing thinker of the year 2010/11.” He explains how they came up with the list of candidates:
So here we are.
To start things of, we came up with a list of candidates we canvassed internally.
Not everyone will be happy with the list, but we tried thinking of a range of intellectuals representing different parts of the continent, not just from one country.
As South African writer Zakes Mda recently tweeted: “Zimbabwe compares only with Nigeria in the per capita production of African intellectuals (scholars, writers, scientists, economists etc.)”
In fact, an earlier draft of the List was heavily South African and Egyptian.
(That draft was not supposed to be up and one reader responded in kind.
It’s been corrected.)
We confess this list is subjective and that is why we have a second round where your suggestions will make up the choices.
Others wanted to know why we’re not including people on twitter: Our response is that we are not sure 140 characters make you “an intellectual.”
A lot of stuff on twitter, including our own tweets, is half-baked and amounts to what Americans call “carnival barking” (in the service of traffic or attracting followers), so it is better to leave that alone.
African thinkers.
Image courtesy of http://africasacountry.com/.
The polls will be open until 5 March, 2012:
Once polls close, we will arrive at a shortlist of five.
Then it gets interesting: We will have a second, separate round of voting based on your recommendations.
That is while you vote in round one, we’ll compile a list of ten names from your suggestions in the comment section, on our facebook page and on Twitter.
Candidates who are already on the first list, won’t be included on the second.
A second vote/poll will proceed and we’ll announce the result.
We will then combine the top five vote takers from the second list with the top five vote takers from the first list.
There will then be a third and final round of voting based on the new combined list that will take one week. After that we will announce the overall winner.
The candidates are: Samir Amin, academic, activist (Senegal/Egypt), Jean and John Comaroff, academics (South Africa/United States), Chinua Achebe, writer (Nigeria), Mahmood Mamdani, academic (Uganda), Mamdouh Habashi, academic, politician (Egypt), Kwame Anthony Appiah, academic, philosopher (Ghana/United States), Achille Mbembe, academic (Cameroon/South Africa), J M Coetzee, writer (South Africa/Australia), Issa Shivji, academic (Tanzania), Nawal el Saadawi, writer and activist (Egypt), Wole Soyinka, writer, activist (Nigeria) and Virginie Toure, activist (Cote d'Ivoire).
Africa is a Country is a group blog:
This post is part of our special coverage Forest Focus: Amazon Nilcilene Miguel de Lima, a small rural producer and local leader from the Amazon region, is under protection of the National Force as she has been receiving constant death threats by land-grabbers and illegal loggers.
In the beginning of February, the Brazilian investigative news agency A Pública went to the town of Lábrea, in the federal state of Amazonia, to interview her:
Why do we have to live like that?
Someone has to fight, to do something.
The authorities have to take action.
So many conflicts because of logging and land.
If the National Force leaves, my partner and I have to leave before them.
If we stay, before being killed, we will be tortured.
Until today, I keep receiving death threats.
Shot dead for protecting the forest
As well as being one of six people under 24 hour protection of the National Force, Nicelene is among 172 people who have received death threats by gunmen in the Brazilian countryside. According to the Comissão Pastoral da Terra (CPT) , an organization which supports rural rights to land and water, this figure has increased 107% compared to 2010, when 83 people were in the same situation.
Last year, as Global Voices reported, the CPT published data which shows that 1,614 people have been murdered in the last 25 years due to rural conflicts.
This number includes worldwide known cases as those of Chico Mendes, Dorothy Stang and the Eldorado dos Carajás killing amongst others.
Current information shows that, in total, the number of people coping with pressures imposed by outlaws due to land and water conflicts in Brazil increased from 38.555 in 2010 to 45.595 in 2011.
There were 32 executions of workers or local leaders from these communities in 2010 and 23 in 2011, as CPT reported.
Adelino Ramos.
Photo from Altino Machado's blog (used with permission).
The intervention of the National Force to protect local community leaders in the Northern region of Brazil, came also as a consequence of the work of the CPT.
The CPT handed in to the Special Secretariat for Human Rights , a body within the Brazilian Ministry of Justice, a list with people under death threat after the murder of Maria do Espírito Santo and her husband José Claudio Ribeiro da Silva in the federal state of Pará shamed the country.
After the brutal murder of the couple, other killings have hit the headlines as those of Adelino Ramos in the federal state of Rondônia and of Nísion Gomes, an indigenous chief, in the Central-Eastern state of Mato Grosso do Sul.
CPT asserts that:
There are people who keep saying it not worthy it.
To me it is worth it.
To me, to my husband it is definitely worth it.
I know there's a risk, I have no doubt about that.
I'd be lying if I said I wasn't afraid.
Another two victims have been in the spotlight recently: João Chupel Primo and Junior José Guerra.
The former was shot dead October last year and the latter had to leave his community behind last month with his family.
For the sake of growth and Rio +20
Having new perspectives in the changing international scenario, the Brazilian state has acquired new economic and political capabilities using what is known as 'soft power'.
Like any other nation state, it is under pressure to push its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) rates up in order to attract investors to buy its sovereign bonds in the international market.
Rise in deforestation in the Amazon Rainforest.
The Brazilian Amazon rainforest had 5,850 km sq of its legal area deforested from August 2009 to April 2010, according to INPE- Instituto de Pesquisas Espaciais.
Brazil.
Photo by Ronie Luis Leite copyright Demotix (July 2007)
But, while some praise a “sustainable” economic growth, others consider that President Dilma Rouseff has a misleading perspective of development .
For Assuntos Produtos da Mente the export-oriented production in Brazil "is undergoing a process of reprimarization of the economy based on the production and export of agricultural and non agricultural commodities (mining), which is unable to fund and promote sustainable development and solidarity and meet the needs of the Brazilian people."
One of the most controversial initiatives is the bill to change the current forestry code.
The Brazilian Society for the Advancement of Science (SBPC, in Portuguese) handed in an open letter to the reader of the bill proposed last week in which reads:
Brazil will host Rio+20 and on its territory is located the world’s biggest rain forest.
And part of this forest is dominated by organized crime.
And part of it is stained by the blood of Brazilians who have fought for it without any support of the State and have died for it having said – on video – that they were going to die.
On part of this forest, ipê and other precious woods are being robbed in conservation unities and part of this wood comes out legalized from Brazilian ports towards Europe.
If that’s not a reason for embarrassment when hosting a conference on environment, then the world is even more cynical than I suspected.
Journalist Amália Safatle reminds us that:
Colombia: FARC Announces End to Kidnappings, Release of Hostages · Global Voices
The FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia), the largest and oldest guerilla group in Colombia, recently announced on February 26 , 2012, that they would release ten military hostages currently being held captive.
The group had suspended a previously scheduled release of 6 hostages last year after denouncing ongoing military operations.
Through this announcement the FARC reported that they would renounce kidnapping as a financing means and emphasized their desire to stop the war which has been ongoing for 48 years.
This news naturally has set off reactions among several citizen mediums, national and international.
And despite it only being several weeks since their announced desire to end the war, the FARC continues making news for its violence , having an armed protest strike in the department of Choco, where serious problems springing from the conflict have been expressed on Twitter with the hashtag #EL_CHOCÓ_NECESITA_PAZ (Choco needs peace) .
In addition there continue to be reported various confrontations with the armed forces in Cauca and other regions of Colombia.
March against FARC, February 4, 2008. Photo by Juan David Medina (CC BY-NC-SA 2.0) In the meantime, preparations for the upcoming liberation of the ten hostages have been announced.
The website Colombia Soy Yo (I am Colombia), founded in 2008 by a group of civilians whose mission is “Constructing a Colombia without armed outlaw groups, pushing responsible, collective action based on human development,” have promoted campaigns like "Today is Your Day: Second Message Marathon for Reconciliation and Freedom," mentioning the FARC communication and repeat their petition for the liberation of six hostages.
They conclude with this emphatic statement:
Spain: Head of Journalist Association Threatens Activist With a Belt · Global Voices
The Head of the Press Association in Granada, Antonio Mora, was presenting a photo exhibition in Granada, Spain, of the relations between Israel and Spain on Tuesday, March 6, when anti-occupation activists from an organization called Plataforma Andalucía con Palestina (Platform Andalucia with Palestine) entered the room.
They held Palestinian flags and started chanting "Boycott Israel" and "No to Zionist impositions" in protest against Spain's support of the Israeli occupation of Palestine through these kind of institutional events.
The activists did not leave when Mora told them to keep quiet, visibly impatient and irritated by their presence.
What happened next?
The answer is so surreal that you should see it by yourselves.
Here is the link to the video.
Screenshot of the video in the moment when Antonio Mora holds his belt as he walks towards the activist.
Shockingly, Mora removes his belt and raises it as if to strike one of the women with it, while a second woman records the scene with her mobile phone.
A few seconds later he drops the belt and tries to push the other woman out of the room.
The fact that this reaction comes from the head of a press association has sparked shock and disbelief among Spanish netizens, who have flooded Twitter with comments and even created a hashtag with the Head´s name: #antoniomora.
Spanish journalist Juan Luis Sánchez tweeted:
Spain: Are You For or Against EuroVegas? · Global Voices
Las Vegas in Europe... Do you like the sound of it?
A giant complex that wouldn't pale in comparison with its American counterpart with its six casinos, three golf courses, nine theatres and twelve hotels, not to mention a multitude of restaurants and shops. This is the project being put forward by multibillionaire Sheldon Adelson, CEO of Las Vegas Sands and 14th wealthiest person in the world according to Forbes magazine.
After having conquered America (Nevada and Pennsylvania) as well as Asia (Macao and Singapore), the gambling magnate now contemplates taking over Europe, and more specifically Spain .
The colossal project would create more than 200,000 jobs, attract between 15 and 18.8 billion euros worth of investments up until 2022, and generate more than 15 billion euros from tourism income over ten to fifteen years.
It seems an apparent golden opportunity for a country bogged down in the Euro Crisis, as Spain is one of the PIGS (Portugal, Italy, Greece, Spain) , a derogatory term used to refer to these economically fragile states.
Sheldon Adelson, CEO of Las Vegas Sands, picture taken by the7eye.org.il on Flickr (CC BY-NC-SA 2.0). Two regions are in contention: Madrid and Catalonia.
The presidents of both of these autonomous communities have put their full support behind this project and have claimed to be ready to do anything to win the EuroVegas 'jackpot'.
In an interview with Spanish radio network Cope, Esperanza Aguirre, president of the Community of Madrid, has avowed her 'duty' to establish EuroVegas in Madrid:
United States: "I am Trayvon Martin" · Global Voices
On February 26, 2012, George Zimmerman, a 'Neighborhood Watch Volunteer' in Sanford, Florida, USA, shot and killed 17 year-old Trayvon Martin while the latter was coming out of a store with freshly-purchased candy.
George Zimmerman confessed to the police that he shot Trayvon in the chest.
According to the 911-recording of the telephone conversation published last Friday night, George Zimmerman had notified the police of a "suspicious individual", Trayvon Martin, a 17 year-old black youth, coming out of a store.
The 911-operator stated that George Zimmerman had been told not to pursue the young man.
"I am Trayvon Martin" - children at the Trayvon Martin March, photo by Gilbert King Elisa on Flickr licence-CC -BY
The indignation of American citizens and internauts regarding the incident continues to grow and is still making front-page headlines in the town of Sanford where the murder took place.
The police unit in charge of the case up to now has not been able to come up with any formal charges against George Zimmerman, whose act is considered as a racial crime by many.
Gareth Bryant on his blog, comments:
Why is the Black man always on the endangered-species list?
It’s like it’s my destiny, to forever be victimized in this matrix.
jrcm.t writes:
the perfect combination: "A fire arm and a black man" - racism at its best!!!
And the defence is said to plead "citizens' rights to use fire arms for self-defence.”
The social network reacted with this formula: white man > spanish man > black man.
The racial connotation in this case seems obvious, indeed.
Even though the US Department of Justice and the FBI have initiated an investigation as to the "facts and circumstances" surrounding the murder of Trayvon Martin, the internet community continues to put pressure on the US government to render justice.
Among the more pertinent comments:
"In Loving Memory. Trayvon Martin 1995_2012" by greendoula on Flickr, licence CC-license-by-ND
Tericruz, in The Huffington Post comment section (which has received thousands of comments on the article since its publication) writes:
You can hear the boy screaming for his life in the back ground of the 911 calls.
I cried because all I could do is think of my son, in that position, knowing he was about to die and no one was there to help him.
God Bless his soul and his family.
Claudial adds:
The law in Florida sounds like it gives cover to anyone who wants to commit murder, provided there are no witnesses.
If I lived in Florida, I would be very afraid.
The gun laws in this country are completely up-side-down.
MrScorpio created a subject on DemocraticUnderground.com and ever since, internauts have been inundating the site with their reactions, personal testimonies and memories of mistreatment by white people in the United States.
On Change.org more than one million people have signed a petition addressed to the US Attorney General, and others, to ensure that justice be served.
Twitter has been flooded with comments about the case.
Photos of demonstrations in Florida are available by following the following hashtag: #Trayvon.
@Black Voices: At city hall, hundreds of residents and activists are calling for the arrest in the Trayvon Martin incident: #trayvon
@YsanneBueno broaches the racial issue:
@MUTHAKNOWS If Trayvon had been a white boy and Zimmerman a black man, I wonder how this all would have panned out? #TrueStory
@OmariShakirXo asks the global community to unite in memory of Trayvon:
Everyone who wanted to arrest Kony, please share your sadness over the Trayvon case.
I really can't see how that would be asking too much...
Many are demonstrating against the "Stand Your Ground" law, in force in Florida since 2005, which widens the auto-defence zones of residential areas to include most public areas as well.
Such a law eliminates the notion under English law whereby one must "retreat" when faced with dangerous situations outside the home.
Without this nuance, an American citizen who is armed now has no obligation to withdraw when faced with a threat.
@Karen Hunter tweeted:
Can someone please explain to me why this "Stand Your Ground" exists?
@Touré added:
The "Stand Your Ground" law does not stipulate that "If you feel threatened by a young black youth, you respond with a shotgun".
Charles M. Blow in the New York Times concludes:
Although we must wait to get the results from all the investigations into Trayvon’s killing, it is clear that it is a tragedy.
If no wrongdoing of any sort is ascribed to the incident, it will be an even greater tragedy.
United States: Another Assault on Immigrant Culture · Global Voices
The decision to eliminate the Mexican-American studies program from public schools curriculum, which had been implemented in Tucson, Arizona, in 1998, has caused outrage.
For many, the dismantling of the program and the confiscation of a great number of books is the living example of the ultra conservative agenda that is threatening the cultural and historic breadth of this region.
The decision approved in January by the Superintendent of Tucson's Independent School District, John Huppethal, is based on ARS-15-112 statute of HB 2281 Law.
As explained by Jasmine Villa in LatinitasMagazine this law forbids courses or classes that:
Are designed primarily for pupils of a particular ethnic group. Advocate ethnic solidarity instead of the treatment of pupils as individuals.
Here's a list of some of the confiscated books:
Guatemala: Empowering Communities Through Pedal Powered Machines · Global Voices
Maya Pedal is an organization in Guatemala that specializes in bringing progress through secondhand bicycles.
Those that they can repair, get a new life as inexpensive means of transportation in the streets of Guatemala and those that aren't usable as bicycles anymore get turned into pedal powered machines to help in daily work such as pumping water, grinding corn, blending, shelling nuts and making roof tiles.
Demonstrating the Maize Mill in Atitlan by Maya Pedal
As written about on Central American Politics and the Earth911 website, the Maya Pedal initiative provides needed equipment to communities without the need of electricity or fuels.
The following English subtitled video shows some of the machines and the people behind the project:
From the Maya Pedal website:
Pedal power can be harnessed for countless applications which would otherwise require electricity (which may not be available) or hand power (which is far more effort).
Bicimaquinas are easy and enjoyable to use.
They can be built using locally available materials and can be easily adapted to suit the needs of local people.
They free the user from rising energy costs, can be used anywhere, are easy to maintain, produce no pollution and provide healthy exercise.
We make water pumps, grinders, threshers, tile makers, nut shellers, blenders (for making soaps and shampoos as well as food products), trikes, trailers and more.
Maya Pedal also provides instructions and building plans for some of their most popular designs so that people can build their own "bicimáquinas", what they call their pedal powered bike machines.
You can see some of the machines and work with the communities in this 3 part video series featuring 2003 footage of Maya Pedal: from their process designing equipment according to needs expressed by farmers, to community meetings where their machines are presented and people learn how to use them.
They also teach people how to make and repair the bike machines, a necessity when taking them to remote areas.
Guatemala: Speaking Out on the Genocide of Indigenous Women · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Indigenous Rights.
The 36 year long civil war (1960-1996) that ravaged Guatemala, left more than 200,000 people dead and at least 100,000 women raped: most of the victims were Mayan.
Only recently have women started speaking out about the violence they suffered in hands of the Army and paramilitaries, and finally, thanks to Women's Link World and The Center for Justice and Accountability, the sexual violence perpetrated against Mayan women is being investigated as part of the genocide proceedings taking place in Spanish tribunals.
International Lawyer Almudena Bernabeu with Maria Toj and other survivors of Genocide in Guatemala.
CC by Renata Ávila
The documentary The Invisible Genocide of Women, by photojournalists Ofelia de Pablo and Javier Zurita gives us the harsh reality of female survivors who tell disturbing accounts of abuse, torture and violence, and also the efforts to advance with the ongoing forensic and legal investigation in the indictment of former Guatemalan President Efraín Ríos Montt.
The 2008 documentary Women, Violence, Silence by Javier Bauluz brings light to the story of Manuela, a single mother who works in a family integration center in Verapaz, one of the areas most affected by the 36 year civil war that ravaged the country.
It is through Manuela's work that the reality of women's situation in Guatemala comes through the light.
In a country where there is an average of two women murdered daily women are under constant threat: the massive and organized violations they suffered during the conflicts, chauvinist violence, child abuse and discrimination based on gender and race are only some of the most important issues.
Patricia Simón of Periodismo Humano wrote about the terrible crimes committed against women during the Guatemalan genocide in Women, Violence and Silence in Guatemala featuring the eponymous documentary:
India: Don't Work at Night and You Won't Be Raped · Global Voices
In recent days a number of working women have been abducted and raped in the city of Gurgaon, located within 30 kilometres of the Indian capital New Delhi.
But all the administration could do in response is to shrug off its responsibility to provide safety to the citizens, by asking all malls, commercial establishments and pub owners not to have women employees working beyond 8pm at night.
Indian netizens have exploded with rage and disbelief while expressing their reactions.
Some reactions were sarcastic, some were eye opening, and some explaining the absurdity of this call.
Aamjanata thinks that this directive is unreasonable as it is a requirement for many jobs to stay late:
there are supposed to be police women working night shifts too.
Illustration by Samia Singh.
CC BY-NC-ND 2.5
Sandip Roy at the First Post is critic about the ploy of the police to ignore the responsibility:
If the police are going to wash their hands off the entire affair, here is an alternative solution that’s getting some buzz on Twitter: how about a curfew on all the men in Gurgaon after 8 pm?
The Life and Times of an Indian Homemaker questions:
Do you as a citizen find the Gurgaon Administration’s response reassuring?
Would it not have been more reassuring if it was made clear that negligence of duty by the police would not be repeated or excused?
The blogger also asks:
Are jobs, safety and roads after 8 pm, in Gurgaon, reserved for men?
Rambling In The City blames the mindset of the patriarch society:
My first reaction, of course, is how easy it is for society (the authorities are reflecting a larger social attitude) to ask women to behave ‘within limits’.
Just like recent incidents in which airline staff asked people with disabilities to deplane, the attitude reeks of a mindset in which women are considered weak, disadvantaged and mostly a problem.
Participants at the Delhi Slutwalk shout slogans and hold banners.
Image by Rahul Kumar.
Copyright Demotix (31/7/2011). Twitter users also were busy in expressing their opinions:
@anuragsharma137: 4th such rape incident near sahara mall gurgaon in 45 days. life is normal next day.
R they strong people or coward?
@Ankursays: #Gurgaon was once a proud symbol 4 our country devlopment.
Now the whole #NCR has become a shame symbol ( #rape destination) 4 our country.
@Nadlakha: Just because a couple of men can't control an erection, women have to sit at home.
What an idea! #gurgaon
@saliltripathi: So it seems in Gurgaon rapists have official working hours.
@LadyAparna: RT @Harneetsin: So women in Gurgaon are told to be home by 8pm if they don't wanna be raped.
Rapists in India get their own “official” Happy Hours now.
Die.
@NameFieldmt: So men are like werewolves or something.
They are saints till 8 pm and become barbaric rapists once the clock strikes 8. #Gurgaon
While everyone is talking about the problem and the preventive measure, Ankita Mahajan ponders about a solution:
Government should take austere initiative to blackout such cases.
If a person is found as a criminal and arrested in a rape case, then there should be only one punishment for him- sentence to death.
Iran: "Should We Vote Again?" · Global Voices
The Islamic Republic is preparing for parliamentary (Majlis) election on Friday, March 2, 2012.
It is the first national election since the controversial 2009 presidential election and subsequent mass demonstrations.
While several opposition groups have called for boycotting the election, the Iranian state is employing anti-Western propaganda to bring citizens to the polls.
Setare Iran has published a poster with an image of Neda, a young woman killed during protests, with a slogan that says, "I do not vote."
The blogger says:
Beyond the question of whether taking part in this election is useful or not, how can someone go to the polls after all these martyrs and with thousands of innocents imprisoned?
This election on Friday will not honour our votes.
It is a test for a regime who considers that the intelligence of the people is non-existant.
Neda's innocent gaze does not let us to sell our honour to a dictatorship.
Azarakan says :
Contrary to the regime's propaganda that says Western countries will attack Iran if people do not vote, boycotting the election makes the regime understand it does not have any legitimacy.
It forces them to stop challenging the international community with its nuclear program.
A one minute film recalls that members of parliament backed backed the last fraudulent election, and brought economic misery to the country.
The final message of the video questions, "Should we vote again?"
Of course, not all Iranian bloggers share the same opinion on the election.
Ahestan considers that problems do not get solved by not taking part in the election because the political participation of the people can be a strong answer to enemies ("a fist to their mouth").
"If they encourage people not to vote, then why should the Islamic Republic not encourage them to vote?" he says.
To vote or not to vote, may finally not be the question, since some analysts predict the government will report a turnout of 60 percent or higher, regardless of what happens on Friday.
Jordan: One Year On, Tensions Building Up · Global Voices
It's March 24th, 2012 - a year after the weekend that shocked Jordan domestically, further exacerbating a lethargic reform effort.
It is the anniversary of the weekend when a diverse group of Jordanians took to the streets of Amman with the intent of open peaceful protest and were met with a counter group that called itself 'Home Calling' (Nidaa Watan).
Nidaa Watan chanted in the name of their allegiance to King Abdullah, branded with symbols of patriotism, carrying pictures of the king as their tone and language grew in aggression.
Global Voices curated some reactions from March 24th and March 25th, 2011.
Reflecting on that weekend, Mohanned al-Arabiat wrote last year on the citizen media site 7iber:
I won’t get into their funding and logistical support, but let me just say this: it had government hands all over it.The group set up a page on Facebook.
The rhetoric was extremely fascist, with threats of violence and even a holocaust against the March 24 guys.
Some commentators even quoted Hitler.
The intention to harm was there for all the world to see it.
One has to wonder if the state “saw” it.
In real life.
The scene was ugly, but ONE thing was clear: One side was peaceful, the other side was not (read here).
One side was hurling stones and insults, the other side was not.
Mohanned's observations continued:
Don’t say we are not ready or worthy of liberty and dignity.
It is not about democracy, for democracy is but a tool.
It is about us.
Our humanity.
Our innate dignity and God-given right to liberty.
Hate and violence spewed by groups formed around the wrong values don’t indict the individuals, for individuals are less likely to hurt and be evil when “alone” or when they are detached from the aforementioned groups.
Lets build groups around our rights.
Today, a year later, protests continue, tensions are growing, and Jordan is more fragmented than ever with evident reform talk fatigue.
And on the other end a playing down of these tensions or what seems like a blasé disregard to the need for better listening and to radically change our ways.
New chasms surfacing, and the old deepening.
The Public Security Department (PSD), the Gendarmerie (Darak), and the General Intelligence Department (GID) have successfully managed to prevent mayhem with little confrontation and aggression with the street.
However, I believe that the tense public discourse and ongoing protests echo a political, economic, social and cultural pressure cooker.
The crisis?
A failure to communicate.
Reflecting on March 24 and the year, last night Tayseer Al Kloob blogged (Ar): Where are the Jordanians?
Have they had enough of this dream?
What are these numbers with no voice?
Are people fed up?
Have they forgotten?
Are they satiated?
Has their dream come true?
Where are the thousands of digital heroes from Facebook and Twitter?
I am not provoking, but rather merely asking, as I'm a simple Jordanian and for this nation I hold a dream in my little heart.
This week in Amman, a series of events and debates are planned that aim to take stock of the year and delve into where some civic movements stand, conversations camped on:
- #JoDebate, today evening, March 24, by the Jordan Debate Club on whether the movement that continues to take to the streets is representative of Jordanians.
- #MaqhaAmman, Tuesday March 27th, by Maqha Amman AlSiyasi (Café Politique-Amman) a conversation among participants of last year's Dakhliyeh Circle protests.
- #HashtagDebates, Saturday March 31st, by 7iber.com debating the repercussions of the March 24 protests on the political scene and Jordan's reform movement.
Morocco: Singer's Performance in Tel Aviv Ignites Debate on Israel's Cultural Boycott · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Morocco Protests 2011.
Hindi Zahra is a young Moroccan singer.
A talented self-taught multi-instrumentalist, the artist embraced success soon after the release of her debut album, Handmade, in 2009.
Hailed by the critics as "the worthy successor to Billie Holiday", she received prestigious prizes, the last of which in February 2011, when she won the Victoires de la Musique award for the best world music album.
Her success has led her on tour across the globe.
Her sultry and intimate jazz style, often sung in English, mixing blues songs with Moroccan Berber melodies, has somehow managed to cross cultural barriers, attracting even larger audiences.
At least this was the case until last October, when it was revealed that the singer was scheduled to perform in Tel Aviv, Israel, on November 12, 2011.
A Moroccan woman in Tel Aviv
The Palestinian Campaign for Cultural and Academic Boycott of Israel quickly published an open letter to the singer calling for the cancellation of her concert in Israel.
"We are surprised that you have agreed to provide entertainment to a society that practices occupation, racial discrimination, and ethnic cleansing while our refugees - the majority of our people! - Continue to be deprived from their inalienable right to return to their homes," the letter reads.
To the dismay of the boycott campaigners, the concert was maintained as scheduled.
In an interview with the Moroccan press, Omar Barghouti, one of the founders of the Palestinian Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (or BDS) campaign, describes his disappointment at the decision of the artist to go on with her representation in Israel:
We were disappointed by behavior.
In her reply to us, there was a lot of hate.
An Amazigh artist also tried to convince her, but she reacted very badly.
Chickens come home to roost
On Wednesday, December 14, the musical tour finally brought Hindi Zahra back home in Morocco for a concert in Casablanca, the country's most affluent and populous city.
On the Internet the controversy broke out when a group of activists, believed to be linked to the Moroccan chapter of the BDS Movement, published a call on Facebook asking people to join a sit-in outside the concert venue.
For some reason, the call was removed from Facebook a few hours later.
Blogger Ghali Bensouda published a screenshot (see bellow) of the call:
Screenshot of the sit-in call as published by Ghali Bensouda
Will organize a protest against normalization with Israel and as a reminder that Moroccan people reject any form of normalization with the Zionists
Among netizens the reactions were split between those who supported the protesters, and those who, like Ghali Bensouda, saw in the protest the instrumentalisation by radical political factions of the youth-based February 20 movement, who has been leading the pro-democracy protests in the country for the last 10 odd months.
When Hindi Zahra performed in Israel, it was her right.
When #feb20 protests against her, it's their right too.
Now move on with your lives.
The cultural boycott of Israel has been going on for years. #feb20 is not doing anything controversial.
Arab World: Happy Mother's Day - Tribute to Martyrs' Mothers · Global Voices
The Arab world marks Mother's Day today, on March 21.
On social networking sites, netizens have sent out congratulations to their mothers on the day. They also remember the mothers of the thousands of martyrs killed by the authorities as they protested against dictatorship in this so-called Arab Spring.
From Bahrain, Sayed Ahmed Al Alawi tweets :
في هذا اليوم لطف الله بقلب كل أم فقدت فلدة كبدها مقتولا ظلماأو مغيبا في المعاقلات أو مشردا في الوطن والمهجر لكل هؤلاء الامهات نقول فصبر جميل @SAalalawi: On this day, may God have mercy on the heart of every mother who has lost her child, killed unjustly, or imprisoned or forced into exile.
To all those mother we say: patience is sweet
Egyptian Salma Hegeb shares a similar sentiment. She reminds us:
@Salma_ts2al: It's the second #MothersDay for some mothers of martyrs in Egypt.
Since yesterday and I'm thinking how painful is that...
And Syrian Zain has bad news:
@ZainSyr: The number of martyrs in #Syria has risen to 70, including 14 children and 7 women #MothersDay
The heartbreak many, particularly children and mothers, felt on this day is summed up by Syrian blogger Razan Ghazzawi, who admits:
@RedRazan: I really envy those who have many words to say to the mothers of martyrs on Mother's Day.
I can't even find one word. #Syria #Mothersday
@RedRazan: #Syria Facebookers have been campaigning 2 encourage citizens 2 visit mothers of martyrs 2day,2 show them they're not alone in their plight.
A screen shot of the Syrian martyr's mother Facebook page, which encourages Syrians to visit the mothers of martyrs killed by the Assad regime
The Facebook Page is called We are Your Children, Martyr's Mother and can be found here .
Back in Egypt, Mohannad tells us : @mand0z: One of the things I respect in my mother is that she is a revolutionary.
Although I know she stays at home terrified when I am out during clashes, she prays for me and supports me
Meanwhile, Syrians abroad are finding it difficult to connect with family back home and wish their loved ones a Happy Mother's Day.
The 47th tweets:
@THE_47th: Seriously, I have to f^^&** find a satellite phone or tie a message to a pigeons feed to tell my grandma Happy Mother's Day in #Homs
Kareem Lailah adds:
@KareemLailah: Please Assad, give me the communication back just for 1 minute to tell her #HappyMothersDay mom! #Syria #iLoveYou
And Syrian Shakeeb Al-Jabri jokes:
@LeShaque: Happy Mother's Day to my motherboard, one mother without which I cannot survive.
Myanmar: Life Inside a Refugee Camp · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage on Refugees. Nine months have passed since clashes broke out between the Myanmar Army and Kachin Independence Organization (KIO).
Thousands of people have fled to refugee camps in other areas in Kachin State, and in villages near China's border.
At least 66 refugees camps have been set-up in government-controlled areas, while others are in Kachin Independence controlled areas and on the China side of the border.
Based in Yangon, Burmese blogger Nang Nyi and her friends visited one of those refugee camps near the China border in mid-February, and she wrote about her experience there.
In part one of her blog entry, she started her story by saying:
As everyone know, I am just a normal girl.
I do not get involve in politics, nor do I understand it, and I don't hold onto or participate in any parties or organizations or any ideology.
I only believe in freedom, justice, and humanitarianism.
So I would like to share back my experience in the way I've seen it and I've felt it.
There were four other friends who went along on the trip with her.
They travelled from Yangon to Mandalay and then to Muse, in Shan State.
They then crossed over to Chinese's border town of Shwe Li to buy the necessary things for the refugees.
The next day, they went to the refugee camp:
Map of the Trip Made by Nang Nyi and her Friends
When war broke in Kachin State, refugees ran away to the nearest border to escape.
Loizer Refugee Camp is a well-known camp.
But the refugee camps we went to were at the borders near Lwe Je. The camps are in the Chinese area of Lai Yin, next to Lwe Je.
The refugee camps near Lai Yin were managed by a Kachin group called Wunpawng Ninghtoi (WPN).
"Wunpaung" in Kachin means "All Kachins", and "Ninghtoi" means "Light".
So you can say that this group is the "Light of Kachins".
When she entered the refugee camp, she saw many kids, but the kids seemed to be afraid of her:
A Kachin Kid (Photo by Nang Nyi)
I have volunteered at orphanages and monastic education centres, so I was used to being delighted at seeing the kids and greeting them enthusiastically.
But here, we can not get near these kids.
We were sad to see that kids ran away from us because we were unfamiliar faces and our looks showed that we were Bamar.
She also commented about the conditions of the refugee camp:
Tents at the Refugee Camp (Photo by Nang Nyi)
One thing we faced when we got there was (not having enough) toilets.
In a refugee camp that had over 1000 people, they only had 11 toilets.
The water for the toilet has to be retrieved from an almost-dry stream over a mile away.
In the whole camp, there was one well. They use that water for drinking.
The camp was built on an old dump site between the sugarcane fields at the outskirts of a Chinese village.There were no big trees around the area, so during day time, it was dusty and hot air blew.
At night, the cold winter wind passed through the waterproof canvases and gets very chilly.
In part two of her blog entry, she wrote about visiting old mills, or coal factories to find out about their needs.
She wrote more about that in her post:
Kids Playing at the Refugee Camp (Photo by Nang Nyi)
Some of the camps that they lived in are very near to the places where the fightings were going on.
We also got to a place where they said over a field of corn and a field of sugarcanes, they'll be back to their old village.
At such camps, they go back to their old villages to get drinking water.
They had to watch out for the situation, and avoid the gunfights.
On the morning that we were leaving, a man who went to harvest sugarcanes in a sugarcane field died of a bomb explosion.
Also, many people have died in those camps because of diarrhea.
On the second day of her trip, they and the responsible people from the camp held a small meeting to discuss about what the refugees needed, and what they can give back in return:
This Woman Sells Brooms and Sell them at Chinese Markets (Photo by Nang Nyi)
The main things that they need are drinking water, water for cooking, and toilets.
After that, medicines, and then foodstuff.
Clothes, kitchen items, blankets and pillows are sufficient due to donations from the Chinese villages.
But what they gave us were sweaters and pants, so they still need longyis for the women.
So we immediately donated the left-over money so that they can dig a well there.
In part three of her entry, Nang Nyi wrote about the terrible ordeals that the Kachin villagers faced:
One evening, the (Burmese) army came to the place where the villagers were hiding, and started shooting at them.
The villagers grabbed their children who were playing near the village and stream, and tried to run away, but a woman who had just given birth, her new seven-days-old child, a 4-year-old kid, and her mother were left at the village.
The villagers who were hiding in th forests heard the children crying all night, but they dared not go back into the village.
So they didn't run very far away, and waited all night.
Only after the soldiers left in early morning, the father of the 7-day-old-child, and the grandfather of the 4-year-old kid went back to look.
The two kids couldn't make a sound anymore due to crying all night.
The corpse of the mother of 7-day-old child, who had an bayonet wound from left rib to right rib, was found under a rock.
The villagers were not able to take her with them, nor bury her, so they just carried the kids, and left.
The mother of the 4-year-old kid was abducted by the soldiers, and haven't heard since.
She also wrote about what a Kachin villager had told them during the meeting:
A note written by a Kachin refugee, which says: "We all love you.
When you go back to Yangon, will you give us your phone number?
When you get back to Yangon, will you send us our photos?
We all love you"
"I am so happy that the Bamar kids are visiting us.
We do love the Bamar people.
After all, we are all human, so we 're happy and thankful that you came and helped us in anyway you can.
This is not because of how much you donated us, but because of your kind hearts.
We are happy that you will be helping us with the things we need, but what we really need are not those.
We want peace.
We want to go home.
We want to live peaceful in our own farm, in our own land, and in our own home with our families.
So please help us for that." - the villager told us with tears in his eyes.
When Nang Nyi and her friends left the camp, the villagers came along with them to their car.
She wrote about their farewell message:
A Group Photo of the Villagers at the Refugee Camp (Photo by Nang Nyi)
We told them, "We will see you again, but not here.
In Kachin State."
They cried when they heard that. They replied, "Yes, we also want to see you again, but not here.
We will meet you in our own villages".
The fulfillment of the wishes of the Kachin refugees may not be too far away.
Delegates of the KIO Army and representatives of the Burmese government will be meeting in Ruili for the third round of talks for ceasefire negotiation this week.
Before departing for Ruili, Sumlut Gam, Head of the Kachin delegates, said:
I'm optimistic.
Everything will be better."
Syria: A Year On, From Beirut With Love · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protests 2011/12.
On 15 March, 2012, the Syrian revolution marked its first anniversary with increasing determination that marked its beginning.
On this day many activists around the world rallied at the Global March Against the Syrian Dictator while protests were arranged in many cities around the world supporting the Syrian cause.
Lebanon, Syria's neighbour, and its capital Beirut, were not away from all what was happening despite the difficulties in freedom of expression lately.
There, activists faced this challenge and decided to do something different.
Beirut Walls explains the activists stance in Lebanon in the blog post entitled "The Syrian revolution after a year, from Beirut with love":
More than 8,000 people have been murdered, and thousands of people have been detained, homes destroyed and women raped.
A year has passed and we are on fire in Beirut watching what's happening in confusion not knowing what to do.
How can we be in solidarity with people being murdered and whose only crime is their determination to take down a regime that has been repressing them for decades?
How can we express our support and Beirut is full of thugs from different Baath, Ultra-National and Militant backgrounds?
Beirut Walls: To the Syrian revolution with love, used under CC.
Despite this, netizens and activist Twitter users announced their support for the Syrian revolution. @abirsasso , from Beirut, tweeted: A year passed and Syrian revolutionaries prove their creativity in their chants.
It is written on Beirut walls. #1YearAgo
While @taniaelk said:
Early this morning, on the 1st anniversary of the revolution in #Syria Beiruti activists sent a message of solidarity.
@NadineBek also assured the Lebanese solidarity with the Syrian revolution saying: Messages from Beirut to Syria's free people.
Activists in Beirut found another way to announce their solidarity with the Syrian people, by drawing graffiti and putting posters on walkways and bridges.
They also wrote and distributed slogans in the memory of the Syrian revolution.
Beirut Walls also wrote about the revolution morning including a video entitled: "From Beirut with love": Because the people's and individuals' solidarity is stronger and more important than official statements and the stance of politicians and sect and parties heads, we wanted to express our support to the Syrian revolution.
In the early hours of 15 March, and away from the different Lebanese official eyes, we were to spread these "messages" from Beirut to Syria's free people.
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protests 2011/12.
Syria: Campaign to Stop One Year of Bloodshed · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protests 2011/12.
Zeinab from Egypt joins the campaign
To mark the first anniversary of the violence which accompanied the Syrian revolution, which started on March 15, 2011, a campaign is being launched to mobilise a global action for celebrities, leading Twitter users and NGOs (CIHRS, FIDH, etc.) from around the world to mount a massive call on world leaders to unite and stop the bloodshed there.
People are being encouraged to take photographs holding a sign saying "UNITE FOR SYRIA" or "STOP ONE YEAR OF BLOODSHED" in their own language and upload them on the campaign's Facebook Page.
The campaign runs from Brazil to Indonesia to the Arab world and aims to generate as many reactions as possible.
On March 15, a global celebrity video will be launched, alongside the hash tag #UniteForSyria on Twitter.
In support of the global call, 50 world leaders have published an open letter in the Financial Times calling on UN Security Council members to "Unite for Syria and Stop One Year of bloodshed".
Turkey: Riot Police Continue to Clash with Kurds Celebrating Newroz · Global Voices
Kurdish people are the largest ethnic group in Turkey, making up 20 per cent of the population, which is close to 20 million people.
They have been subject to state-sanctioned discrimination and human rights violations.
Today, in Yuksekova, which is a district in the Hakkari province of Turkey, Kurdish people were attacked for gathering to celebrate Newroz - the Kurdish new year.
One Kurdish politician, Ahmed Turk was hospitalised, and 32-year-old Alaattin Okan was hit with a tear-gas canister in Batman.
Two prominent Kurdish websites were taken down earlier this morning, and have been unable to send updates regarding the clashes.
In addition to this, mainstream news sites have been slow in covering this story, which is why Kurdish activists have used social networking sites to raise awareness.
Faruk Arhan, a journalist for Bianet tweeted a picture showing a Kurdish woman being attacked by Turkish riot police:
Yüksekova
Yekbun Alp tweeted that a Kurdish MP was arrested, amidst clashes between Turkish riot police and Kurds who wanted to celebrate Newroz:
@YekbunAlp: MP Özdal Ücer was a guest of a family in Cizre when police attacked the house and arrested the family.
Another Kurdish activist, tweeted this picture, showing Turkish riot police firing tear-gas and Kurdish youth responding with stones out of anger and frustration that they can't even celebrate the Kurdish new year without being attacked:
Photo: @quzzulqurt
Hawri Tofik from Sweden was among the hundreds of Kurdish activists angered by the Turkish government's brutality towards Kurds celebrating Newroz.
She tweeted:
@iirwaH: Seriously, I don't understand..
Why is it a crime to celebrate Newroz?
How many more Kurds gonna get injured/killed?
Jiyan Azadi tweeted this picture, saying tens of thousands gathered in Yuksekova, and later were attacked by riot police:
Picture tweeted by @jiyanazadi
Meanwhile, Meltem Ay from London tweeted:
@jin_jiyan_azadi: How foolish of Turkey!
Dictatorship and oppressive methods will only unify the Kurdish people and make them stronger!
Alliance For Kurdish Rights has uploaded several pictures, showing Turkish riot police have used tear-gas and water canons to disperse protesters from the district of Yuksekova.
Video Highlights: Defending Human Rights · Global Voices
Several stories using video this month have focused on human rights violations and the steps being taken to speak out on the abuses and try to protect minorities and disadvantaged communities.
Click through to the stories to see more videos and learn more about each case.
The right to life and non-discrimination
Guatemala: Speaking Out on the Genocide of Indigenous Women
Thanks to activists the international courts following the genocide proceedings against Guatemala will be taking into account the violence indigenous women faced for more than 36 years where they were victims because they were women and because they were indigenous.
A documentary and several video testimonials tell their harrowing stories, stories that due to the discrimination the victims faced in their communities and the fear of retribution many kept silent for decades.
Fighting for sexual diversity
Uganda: The Anti-Gay Bill That Won't Go Away
The same bill that was presented in 2009 is showing up again for voting in Uganda:
Uganda has again re-tabled the controversial anti-gay bill.
Ugandan member of parliament, David Bahati, who proposed the bill back in 2009 has again considered tabling the draconian bill but with changes.
He claims to have dropped the death penalty and jailing of family members who fail to report homosexuals to the authorities.
However, under further scrutiny it has been noted that no changes have been made in the bill, and it is still exactly the same one presented back in 2009.
The following video explains the impact this bill will have on the LGBT community as well as their families and friends:
Hong Kong: Videos Against Homophobic Bullying in Schools
In Hong Kong, students in schools admit that homosexual students are bullied and discriminated, so an organization has spearheaded a campaign to raise awareness on this issue, focusing on producing online videos of interviews with sexually diverse students and experts on the topic.
The right for an education
Spain: Police Violence Against Students in Valencia
and
Spain: Crackdown Against Students Continues in Valencia
In Valencia, school children decided to protest budget cuts that affected their schools, forcing them to carry blankets with them due to lack of heating, in what has been a particularly cold winter in Europe.
Police reacted to the protests violently with students injured and detained; many videos have been made showing the abuses against minors, females and the elderly.
Just a few days after the brutal police crackdown at the Luis Vives Institute of Secondary Education in Valencia , students have again been the target of beatings, pushing and violence from the police at a pacific protest in which they were, precisely, demonstrating against police violence.
This time,the crackdown started on the afternoon with unexpected force.
The right to a home
Brazil: Quilombo Community in Bahia About to Be Evicted
One of the oldest slave descendent communities in Brazil, Quilombo Rio dos Macacos, where around 50 families live, has a date for eviction: March 4, 2012.
The claim for the land comes from the Navy of Brazil, that intends to broaden a condo for its officers in that territory, in the border area between Salvador and Simões Filho, state of Bahia...
Descendants of original peoples from Africa who, during colonialism, were taken from their land to become slaves in Brazil, the Quilombolas now see themselves under threat of losing their homes again, despite their right to the land they inhabit enshrined in the constitution.
This short documentary shows the situation the Quilombolas are facing: afraid to leave their houses, unable to move freely and fearing for their well-being, their families and their homes.
Colombia: Citizen Journalist Threatened Over Viral Video
A video made of the violent response the government had to peaceful protesters standing up against the rerouting of a river in their community for a dam construction has caused the citizen journalist to receive death threats.
Brazil: The Deficient Prison Systems of the Americas
Recent events in Latin American prisons that cost the life of hundreds of inmates have people looking into the living situation and overcrowding faced in many penitentiary centers, and analyzing if they are tragedies waiting to happen.
People who are being deprived of their liberty as punishment for their crimes should be guaranteed minimum living conditions, and sometimes these aren't met, as shown in the documentary of life in Brazilian prisons, which also provides possible solutions for this difficult situation.
Brazil: Cyclist's Death in São Paulo Sparks Protests and Debate · Global Voices
On the morning of March 2, 2012, 33-year-old Juliana Dias was killed by a bus while riding her bicycle on her way to work along São Paulo's main street, Avenida Paulista.
Her story shocked cycling rights activists, sparked spontaneous protests across the city and opened a national debate.
The blog Beirut Walls described the sad accident:
Bulgaria: Construction of the Nuclear Power Plant "Belene" Cancelled · Global Voices
On March 28, Bulgaria officially announced the cancellation of its newest nuclear power plant (NPP) “Belene” construction.
The Parliament has stopped this controversial project after years of discussion and more than half a billion euros invested in the construction of the first reactor.
The decision was announced not only by the mainstream media, but also by the Bulgarian Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikolay Mladenov, who tweeted:
@nmladenov: #Bulgaria suspends controversial #Belene Nuclear Power project that has cost hundreds of millions for the last 31 years...
A Facebook page screenshot of 'the European campaign to prevent the construction of a nuclear power plant in an earthquake-area in Belene, Bulgaria.'
A long-lasting fight surrounds this joint venture with Russia , which was to be built in an active seismic zone.
Activists have been continuously advocating to raise awareness about the risks of building a nuclear power plant in this region, recalling the Vrancea earthquake of 1977 , which caused the deaths of more than 1,600 people.
In Svishtov, a major Bulgarian city in the area, located 14 km away from the construction site, 120 people were killed back then; the 1977 earthquake also destroyed buildings in the city of Belene, just 3 km from the NPP site.
A report on the seismic risks, produced by Greenpeace activists and the Green Policy Institute in Bulgaria and published on the anti-NPP National coalition “BeleNE” website, showed that the previous report was inconsistent and no real risk assessment had been completed.
Thus, they concluded that no argument exists to claim that the zone is safe from a seismic standpoint and went on calling for the cancellation of the project.
But other considerations went into play in the Belene controversy.
Edvin Sugarev, a former MP, started a huge discussion on his blog svobodata.com (translates as “the freedom”):
@andrewmacdowall: #Belene #nuclear plant scrapped.
Is this the end of a four-decade saga?
NPP could have been a boost for #Bulgaria http://t.co/ITf1IOhn
Many Bulgarians believe this NPP would have helped the country to alleviate the ever-increasing prices of electricity.
Also, the question to arise is: how will the money spent on the now-aborted project be taken back?
Hristo Ivanov (@cipisec) tweeted ironically:
Spain: Historic Battle of Almansa Remembered in Valencia · Global Voices
On April 25, 2012 it was hard to miss the soccer world's surprising news: FC Barcelona had been eliminated from the Champions League.
Online and in the streets, everyone was talking about it — that is, except certain Valencian netizens, who used the internet to take part in an annual remembrance of April 25, 1707: the day that Valencia lost its political autonomy to the Kingdom of Spain.
Every year, this commemoration has been purely civic; the day has never been institutionally recognized as one of historic importance.
This year, the Valencian parliament (Les Corts Valencianes), controlled by the right-wing People's Party, preferred to pay homage to the Valencians who participated in the Cádiz Cortes during the French occupation of Spain during the Napoleonic Wars and the drafting of the Spanish Constitution of 1812.
Popular portrait of Philip V of Spain hung upside down in remembrance of his orders to burn the Valencian town of Xàtiva
Those who wished to celebrate April 25 in a different way took to the streets that Saturday, as part of a contemporary tradition, a series of protests and concerts organized by Acció Cultural del País Valencià (Cultural Action for Valencia or ACPV).
Others took to the internet and honored the day through social networking.
Every spring, Valencians remember the fateful moment in their history, when Archduke Charles of Austria suffered military defeat at the hands of Philip d'Anjou's army at the Battle of Almansa, against the backdrop of the Spanish War of Succession: a continental battle for control of Spain, in which Franco-Spanish soldiers fought against the allied armies of England, Portugal, The Netherlands and Germany.
Given the international ramifications of the conflict, it's understandable that traditional narratives tend to overlook the serious consequences the War of Succession had for Spain's Catalan-speaking regions-Valencia, the Balearic Islands and Catalonia-where the event is remembered as the main reason for the loss of political independence (for a comparison of historical perspectives, see the differences between Battle of Almansa articles on Vikipèdia and Wikipedia).
Certain blogs, like Hic Sunt Leones , explain the history:
Overseas Chinese Students Bring Changes to China? · Global Voices
Ali from Offbeat China discussed the impact of overseas Chinese students to China upon their return.
The discussion in major overseas Chinese student web forums indicate that rather than the assumption that these students would be exposed to fundamental value changes and help China to develop political reform, many take advantage of the social capital stemmed from current system to better their lives.
Spain: Images of Police Brutality During General Strike · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis.
On #29M (29 March) Spain's trade unions called a general strike in protest against the Labour Reform introduced by Mariano Rajoy's (of the Popular Party) government.
This strike was the first that the government has faced, and only 100 days after Rajoy came to power.
The massive demonstrations held all over the country came as a result of measures adopted by the Executive, which in its eagerness to take the quickest route out of the economic crisis and to create jobs has deregulated the labour market, made it easier to fire workers, increased employer's flexibility to increase working hours, decreased wages, encouraged the mobility of workers, and facilitated the hiring of young people on work experience placements for longer periods.
Groups of citizen movements not linked to the main trade unions, such as ¡Democracia Real Ya! joined the strike in the so-called 'Critical block' .
Throughout the day of the strike, in which a majority of workers participated, there were numerous moments of tension, especially in Barcelona where riot police clashed with protesters.
Once again, the security agents failed to wear their identification badges.
Protesters wounded by rubber bullets during the general strike, Barcelona.
Photo Jesús G. Pastor, copyright Demotix 3/29/12.
During the day, which passed peacefully in the majority of cities, there were confrontations between various groups.
In the following video we present the case of the firefighters, who were protesting the cuts that they are suffering, and who were also the target of violence by the riot police who charged and beat them:
In the next two videos filmed by activists, we can see that the police were carrying electric batons.
In the first video, protesters surround them while we see two police officers (the slowest) running away.
The second video, filmed from the opposite perspective, shows the four at the head of the crowd (a blonde woman and three men), an attack on a protester who falls to the ground, and the two from the first video slightly behind the others.
The protesters discover once again a group of police officers infiltrated in the crowd to attack protesters and heighten tensions so that the subsequent police charge would be in some way justified. (Source: http://www.tercerainformacion.es/spip.php?article35508 ):
Another video shows the statement made from hospital by a protester who was hit by a rubber bullet fired by police during the strike in Barcelona.
He has two broken ribs and a punctured lung.
Spain: King Juan Carlos and the Elephant in Botswana · Global Voices
Days after Felipe Juan Froilan accidentally shot himself in the foot during shooting practice, his grandfather, King Juan Carlos I of Spain, fell while he was hunting and broke his pelvis.
This would have been minor news, had it not been for the fact that he was hunting elephants in Botswana on the kind of safari that can cost up to $60,000 USD .
That the King of Spain would pay thousands to kill animals (while his country is suffering from recession, no less) has been deeply troubling for many, and this was clear on the blogosphere.
Carlos Canicero sarcastically mused: "What's going on with the Bourbons and shotguns?
Can't they live without shooting?"
Lola Pardo of El País pointed out that Rann Safaris, the agency through which Juan Carlos booked his hunt, had shut down its website , shortly after a photo disseminated through the internet, showing the King posing before an elephant carcass.
Spain: General Strike Across Cities and Neighborhoods · Global Voices
This is how Kaos en la Red summarize the motives:
With this slogan, the Assembly of the Neighborhood Los Austrias in Madrid convened the 29M General Strike (on March 29) in Spain, which had a massive attendance across the country.
This direct call to action is contrasted with the labor unions' more impersonal slogans - "They want to change everything" - and is an example of the rift that opens in every social movement between the official conveners and those who demonstrate without a flag of any sort.
In this sense, the 15M movement has been a turning point in terms of supporting the calls of a part of civil society, organized in collectives, neighborhood assemblies, and local or individually-led associations.
In this general strike, the citizen movement has taken different forms in the streets, neighborhoods, social organizations, and digital social networks.
One of the initiatives has been the "consumption strike."
Many took to the streets with their own food and drinks from home:
Popular Lunch in favor of the workers' strike in Campo de la Cebada de Madrid.
Photo by author Lidia Ucher.
- 14h: Comida Popular – traerse el tupper para compartir (recuerda #HuelgadeCONSUMO, cocina el día anterior) - 2pm: Popular Lunch — bring Tupperware to share with everyone (remember #CONSUMPTIONstrike, cook the day before)
The intention was to support the strike and take to the streets without paying to consume food for 24 hours.
Spain: Faces of the victims of the economic crisis · Global Voices
The Els nous pobres blog collects testimonies of poor people affected by the crisis which has greatly limited their economic and personal opportunities.
According to the authors, the intention is "to give faces, names and surnames to social injustice we have been living in while our public representatives have been sharing shameful wages, favors, subsidies and privileges of all kinds."
France: The March of the Suburbs · Global Voices
The website Marche Paris 2012 , emanation of the Indignados and Occupy movements, details the organization and the stages of the March of the Suburbs, which leaves from Saint-Denis on April 14, and proposes to go through the Parisian suburbs in 27 stages, as punctuated by the People's Assemblies Network, before ending up at the Place de la Concorde on May 12th.
A Facebook page and a Twitter account link with similar movements in other cities.
France: Taking a Stand for Regional Languages · Global Voices
On March 31, 2012, several simultaneous events took place in France's major cities, driven by the overarching goal of showing an unfailing support to regional as well as indigenous languages.
These demonstrations took place three weeks prior to the French presidential election and showed a strong citizen commitment in favor of the recognition of regional and indigenous languages.
Participants called for the endorsement of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages . Even though the treaty was signed by France in 1999, it has never been ratified.
The participating associations are asking the presidential candidates to take a stand on the status of regional languages. As of today, regional languages are considered unconstitutional because the French State doesn't recognize minorities.
Demonstration in Toulouse on March 31, 2012.
Photo by @elpasolibre on Twitter
A real political and legal imbroglio is surrounding these languages and their recognition due to people's prejudices and lack of knowledge about the issue.
One hopes that a change of perspective is in the works.
The amendment introduced to the Constitution in 2008, seemed to pave the way for the definition of a status for these languages in addition to their teachings in schools.
Nicolas Sarkozy had cut short these hopes arguing that such a procedure would lead to a community-based cultural evolution which is not compatible with a unified country.
Many local representatives and regional representatives attended these events which brought together thousands of people in Toulouse, Quimper, Strasbourg, Bayonne, Perpignan and Ajaccio (Official hashtag on Twitter: #op31m):
Xavi: The importance of Regional Languages?
For Whom?
I'm not convinced that it's crucial to grant all local dialects an official status.
I live in Spain and I witness the havoc that the linguistic division ended up creating.
Thank God, in France, only French is the official language.
Language is part of the ties uniting all fellow citizen of a country: Let us not capitulate and yield to these communitarian claims.
ericparis11: With such type of arguments, we will soon reach the point where we will soon tell Quebecker, that it is time to relinquish their 'patois' and speak the majority language of the country where they live, i.e. English for instance.
And it's within that same type of thinking that tomorrow all European Commission Documents and of the parliament will be in English, as for "the minorities", (French, German, Spanish, Italian, Hungarian, Finnish and others speaking in Dutch or Portuguese) well they will have to live with this so logical and Cartesian "simplification".
In fact, should our French researchers and teachers still use for the purpose of their work a language as obsolete and as rarely used as Molière's native tongue ?
This is already happening - clearly to the benefit of our country's radiance around the world...
Elg: Ah… Regional languages!
It's always that topic kindling passions, murderers from one side but idolatrous from the other!
While the best thing we can do is to get some balance.
Knowing the Breton, Catalan, Corsican, Occitan or Basque does not live differently from people who do not speak a minority language.
We can just read, write, speak and understand one more language!
thiziri: And when we don't have particular roots with a territory what language do we speak? neither Basque, nor Breton, nor Catalan etc living with a stranger, which already means two languages at home.
In which school shall we place our children?
This debate scares me since it supposes belonging to a territory to which we identify.
But for this, for how many generations should have we been living there? and stay for the rest of our lives..
I feel I am French and nothing else, I can't help it, it is my history and it doesn't bother me that some people wish to speak another language but they shouldn't forget the other French who also have the right to live with one single language.
That too means tolerance.
Greece: Public Suicide of 77 Year Old Man in Athens Square · Global Voices
All Greece was shocked this morning by the news that Dimitris Christoulas, aged 77, shot himself in the head around 9 am, in full view of passersby in Syntagma square, Athens, across from the Parliament building.
The man is reported to have been a retired pharmacist, who sold his pharmacy in 1994. Before the shot, he reportedly shouted that he "didn't want to leave any debts to his children".
A Facebook event calls for a gathering to Syntagma square today evening: "Everyone at Syntagma.
Let's not get used to death".
Global Voices author Asteris Masouras has made a collection of posts and media on Storify.
Poster from a Facebook event for this evening in Syntagma square.
It reads: "It wasn't a suicide.
It was a murder.
LET'S NOT GET USED TO DEATH."
Greek Twitter has been buzzing all day with mixed comments and reactions on this tragic event:
@YanniKouts: Suicide of a 77-year old man this morning in Syntagma Sq shocks #Greece.
"It's the only way for a dignified end, I can't eat from garbage".
User Arkoudos makes a wish for all those left behind :
@SaraFirth_RT: Europes methods for 'saving Greece' are now literally killing the Greek people.
The syntagma suicide should never have happened #greece
Athens News reports about a suicide note found on the victim, where reportedly he compared the present Greek government to wartime collaborationists:
The Tsolakoglou government has annihilated all traces for my survival.
And since I cannot find justice, I cannot find another means to react besides putting a decent end , before I start searching the garbage for food.
Georgios Tsolakoglou was a Greek military officer who became the first prime minister of the Greek collaborationist government during the Axis Occupation in 1941-1942.
The reference is obviously seen as a comparison between the wartime government and the current government of Lucas Papademos.
User PenelopeD10, mocking Athens Mayor Giorgos Kaminis for his decision last summer to oust tents protesters off Syntagma square, because it was a bad image for Athens tourists, says ironically :
@dianalizia: shameless! karatzaferis opportunistically uses man's suicide this morning to criticize corrupt politicians & system (he is a part of)
Guatemala: Indigenous and Rural Communities March to Defend Their Land · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Indigenous Rights.
Thousands of Guatemalan indigenous people and campesinos (countrymen) participated in a nine-day march to defend their lands, protest forced relocations, and call attention to other issues affecting rural communities.
Cultural Survival explains:
Organized by the Comite de Unidad Campesino, (CUC) the march demands the attention of the State of Guatemala, as well as local, national, and international media to the issues facing the rural Indigenous and campesino majority of the country.
The report continues:
The movement leaders have issued a press statement, “Declaration of the March for Resistance and Dignity, in Defense of the Earth and Territory” in which they have made the following demands– reiterations of longstanding grievances of the Indigenous and campesinos in Guatemala:
Elimination of agrarian debt imposed by the state on farmers; a just redistribution of land, allowing farmers at least a terrain to provide subsistence crops.
Termination of forced relocations, in particular the ongoing problem in the Polochic Vally, Alta Verapaz, where hundreds of families were violently evicted from their homes to make way for African palm and sugar plantations in March of 2011.
End to persecution and criminalization of Indigenous people fighting for their rights, including the 8 Indigenous women of San Miguel Ixtahuacán who have orders for capture for speaking out against the Marlin Mine.
Cancellation of the concessions for mining, petroleum, hydroelectric, and mono-culture agriculture.
Approval of the bills in Congress benefiting poor and Indigenous communities, including Bill 4087, the Law for Community Media, that would legalize community radio.
Photographer and blogger James Rodríguez published a photo essay of the arrival of the marchers to Guatemala City on March 26, 2012:
Guinea-Bissau: Coup d'Etat and the Angolan Military Mission · Global Voices
At nightfall on Thursday, April 12, 2012, dozens of military personnel took the streets of the capital of Guinea-Bissau, the headquarters of the historic political party in power, PAIGC (Partido Africano para a Independência da Guiné e Cabo Verde, or African Party for the Independence of Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde), and the National Radio, starting yet another coup d'etat in a country that since independence in 1974 has never seen an elected president make it to the end of term.
In recent weeks, two events raised the tension levels in the military and political arenas: as Global Voices reported, there were allegations of "generalized fraud" by the opposition in the first round of presidential elections on March 18 (early elections due to the death of President Malam Bacai Sanhá in January 2012) and the announcement of the withdrawal of the Angolan Security Mission in the country, MISSANG.
Headquarters of the presidential candidate Carlos Gomes Junior (PAIGC), also known as Cadogo, during the campaign for presidential elections.
Photo by Giuseppe Piazzolla coypright Demotix (12/03/2012)
The armed forces and the quest for arms
News of the military withdrawal at the beginning of the week had raised alarm about the possibility of a military coup being prepared.
Guinean military personnel had taken what is considered a political stance in demanding the reinforcements of Angolan military equipment that MISSANG had received after the failed coup attempt of December 2011 - "if not, they should return it to Angola".
The spokesman for the Guinean Armed Forces, Daba Na Walna, moreover told journalists that, two days after polls closed on March 20, the Angolan ambassador in Guinea-Bissau, General Feliciano dos Santos, had accused the General António Indjai, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, of intending to bring about a coup d'etat.
Portuguese journalist Helena Ferro de Gouveia wrote in her blog Domadora de Camalões about the "formal reasons behind the position the Guinean military men took", and added: Look, we are FED UP with these military brutes, bandits, vagabonds and coconut-heads: http://bbc.in/IHyHUv
Italy: Netizens Ponder the April 2009 L'Aquila Earthquake · Global Voices
As still marked by many church clocks and bell towers at the center of L'Aquila , at 3:32 am of April 6, 2009, a 6.3 magnitude earthquake broke the silence of the sleeping town and destroyed the lives of many of its inhabitants.
To remember the third anniversary of the tragic event, citizens came together in support and remembrance, created numerous web pages for retelling and commenting upon the earthquake and its far-reaching effects. Church clock stuck at 3:32 am of April 6, 2009 in L'Aquila.
Photo by StazioneMIR, under a Creative Commons BY-NC-ND 2.5 License There was no dearth of official visits and commemorations — significant to many was the presence of Fabrizio Barca, the minister of "Coesione territoriale" , who has shown particular concern for Aquila's situation and to creating transparency in the reconstruction process — amidst great sorrow and grief, demands for justice and for guarantees of reconstruction.
‏ @ermeneleutico dedicates a few verses to the town:
China Social Media Crackdown: 6 Arrested, 16 Websites Closed · Global Voices
News spread through the Chinese Internet as the country woke up to the following on Saturday, March 31, 2012: six people had been arrested and 16 websites closed for "fabricating or disseminating online rumors," according to China's National Internet Information Office (SIIO) and Beijing police, as official news agency Xinhua reported.
The same report stated that popular Twitter-like microblogging sites Sina Weibo and Tencent Weibo, where the so-called rumours appeared, had been "criticized and punished accordingly".
What the punishment consists of, there is no way to know, but Chinese netizens soon noticed the results: the two microblogging sites banned users from posting comments from Saturday, March 31, to Tuesday, April 3.
Many foreign media picked up the story, such as BBC, The Wall Street Journal, Al Jazeera or Forbes.
No one can hear your screams here.
Have the people duct-taped. From Ministry of Tofu
Jing Gao, from Ministry of Tofu, wrote:
Mali: An Introduction to the Tuareg Population · Global Voices
The blog of the Tuareg movement Temoust Survie publishes a post (via information from l'Express ) that provides a brief introduction to the Tuareg culture : "we are a nomadic people living from farming and trade.
The Tuaregs are estimated to be about 1.5 million in a region that spans across Mali, Niger, Algeria, but also Libya, Burkina Faso and Mauritania.
The common language Tamashek is related to the Berber language.
With the Ethiopian population, the Tuaregs are one of the few African people with their own calligraphy.
The distinguishing features of the Tuareg clothing are the indigo veil they wear hence their nickname "the men in blue".
Mexico: Netizens Speak Out Against Geo-Location Law · Global Voices
On April 18, 2012, a series of reforms popularly known as the "Geo-location Law" began to take effect. The law reforms the Federal Penal Code, the Federal Penal Procedures, the Telecommunications Federal Law, the Minimum Rules about the Social Rehabilitation of Sentenced Criminals and the National System of Public Security General Law.
On Twitter this matter has been discussed by several users under the hashtag #LeyGeolocalización (Geo-location Law)
What are the reforms about?
Given the current administration's war against organized crime, the reforms mentioned above give the investigation authorities (Federal Public Ministry) the faculty to ask for the geo-localization of mobile equipment (smartphones, tablets, cell phones) if they suspect the device is used to commit a crime .
The reform also establishes service providers' obligation to cooperate promptly and without reservations with authorities, not only to locate the mobile equipment but also to give technical support for the installation and operation of devices that block cell phone signals, radio-communication or data transmission (Internet) inside jails.
These reforms aim to prevent or discourage the theft of telecommunication equipment because they give authorities the right to deactivate or block lines that are related to theft or loss.
Image of devices with geo-location systems from Flickr user Chris Fleming, under Creative Commons Licence 2.0 Generic (CC BY-SA 2.0)
How have Mexicans reacted to these reforms?
Several bloggers wrote about the issue before the reforms took effect.
Katya Albiter , from Vivir México (Living Mexico), wrote about those who fostered the reforms:
Peru: What Is Killing the Dolphins? · Global Voices
Dolphins are among the most intelligent creatures on the planet, found in almost all the oceans in the world and with very few natural predators.
In Peru they are found along various sections of the coast, including Lima's beaches where they swim alongside surfers, in the Paracas National Reservation, or on Piura's coastline, in the north of Peru, which is a spot also enjoyed by humpback whales.
This is the reason the news that in the first part of this year 3,000 dolphins have been found dead along the north coast of the country has caused such astonishment.
Carlos Yaipén-Llanos, director of ORCA , a Peruvian marine life conservation organisation, points out that these deaths are the result of "an acoustic impact that is created by deep-sea equipment used for the detection of oil, gas and other minerals".
Dolphins in Pisco, Perú.
Photo by Flickr user Alicia0928 under CC license. Attribution 2.0 Generic (CC BY 2.0).
The director of ORCA also reveals that it has been deduced from the forensic analises of the dolphins that they suffered from "acute decompression syndrome evidenced by fractures in the periostial bones and hemorrhaging in the middle ear, disseminated pulmonary emphasema, and air bubbles in organs such as the liver, kidneys and blood vessels".
A subsequent newspaper report mentions that it is the use of exploration technology known as Sísmica 3d which causes the acoustic impacts that affect the dolphins.
The company BPZ , based in Tumbes (to the north of Piura), is using this form of exploration to gather information on oil and natural gas deposits.
This company has denied that their research causes the deaths of marine species, but the report on environmental impact indicates that this technology does have its consequences.
President of the Congress Daniel Abugattás has declared his hopes that the ministers of environment, production, energy, and mining inform the Peruvian parliament about this case.
Another source suggests that it is IMARPE, the Instituto del Mar del Perú , that should release an official report on the matter.
Hardy Jones, the founder of BlueVoice.org , filmmaker and activist for the conservation of marine life, went to Peru to experience Dr. Yaipén-Llanos' primary reports of the 25th March.
Already on Peru's northern coast, he tweeted on the 27th March:
Found 615 dead #dolphins on 135 kilometers of beach N of San Jose, Peru.
Tragedy unspeakable.
Please retweet.
This must be investigated.
On his personal blog he describes in greater detail how he found out about these events, his trip to Peru and what he saw there:
Carlos and his team performed necropsies on a couple of the dolphins.
Seeing a new born common dolphin, umbilicus still attached was wrenching.
We raced along the hard sand at the edge of the surfline crying out when we saw a dead dolphin.
At first they came every couple minutes.
But then we’d hit intervals when the cries would go “dolphin!
Delphin!
Otro!
Dos mas!
There’s another one up by the dune.”
Later he posted part of Dr. Yaipén-Llanos' report on BlueVoice's blog:
As previously reported, two species have been affected: Long beaked common dolphin (Delphinus capensis) and Burmeister’s porpoise (Phocoena spinipinnis).
We counted 615 common dolphins.
All age classes were affected: Adult males, females, lactating females, juveniles, calves and newborns.
We counted 19 porpoises, only females and calves.
ORCA has shared photos on Facebook of their findings.
Dr. Yaipén-Llanos was interviewed on Spanish CNN about the events.
The following video is part of Hardy Jones and Carlos Yaipén-Llanos' journey along the coast of Northern Peru:
Meanwhile, environment and fishing ministers met on the 10th April to report on the link between oil exploration and the deaths of the dolphins.
They also had to report on the measures being taken to avoid greater environmental impact on marine fauna, now that a report has shown that approximately 20,000 dolphins, as well as other species, are in mortal danger. Inquiries into the use of Sísmica 3d have been planned along the entire Peruvian coastline.
Original post published on Juan Arellano's personal blog.
United Kingdom: Cases of Child Malnutrition on the Rise · Global Voices
Charlie Cooper, a collaborator from portal Kaoesenlared , published an article on 13th March about the increase in cases of child malnutrition in the United Kingdom.
According to FareShare and Kids Company, two charity organisations, many starving children come from immigrant families without work permits and who cannot apply for benefits.
However, they have also reported cases of parents in employment who are finding it increasingly difficult to get by due to the high cost of living.
Spain: St. George's Day, Catalan Culture and Protest · Global Voices
Saint George's Day (Diada de Sant Jordi in Catalan) is a unique celebration in Catalonia.
Tradition holds that the festival revolves around roses and books.
April 23rd has always been a day of protest in the name of Catalan language and culture.
This year will see more protest than ever because people will also be organizing against government cutbacks that affect education and Catalan culture.
Syria: Ali Mahmoud Othman, the "Eyes of Baba Amr", Detained · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protest 2011/12.
Video activist Ali Mahmoud Othman, head of the media office of Baba Amr, has been seized by the Syrian government.
Friends and colleagues believe he is being subjected to severe torture.
His detention puts all activists from the office at risk and is a huge blow to citizen journalism in the country.
Othman, who was originally a vegetable vendor, has been documenting unrest in Homs since the beginning of the Syrian revolution.
He was instrumental in assisting those covering the conflict from Baba Amr, helping evacuate international journalists from inside the neighborhood.
He decided to stay in Baba Amr even after the Syrian army re-captured the neighborhood after bombing it for three months.
According to Mónica G.Prieto, correspondent for Spanish news outlet Periodismo Humano, "he did not want to leave as long as a single person stayed in the neighborhood, he refused all offers to leave".
Ali Mahmoud Othman in Baba Amr, Homs.
Image source: Baba Amro News
The following video shows Othman, fondly known as the "eyes of Baba Amr," telling the world about the suffering of the population of Baba Amr.
He talks to the camera without concerns for his identity.
He believed his message would be more reliable and reach a wider audience if he showed his face:
Activists have created a Facebook page to share news on his whereabouts and demand his release.
And the Committee to Protect Journalists has called on Syrian authorities to immediately release Othman and all journalists detained for their work:
Syrian citizen journalists have been documenting the unrest at extraordinary risk to their lives.
The regime must end its campaign to intimidate them and silence reporting of its brutal crackdown.
His detention has captured attention of mainstream media and political representatives from different countries.
The UK's Foreign Secretary William Hague called on his release:
I call on the Syrian authorities to release Mr Othman and other political prisoners immediately.
The Syrian regime will be held responsible for Mr Othman's safety and his treatment and I will raise his case in Istanbul at the Friends of Syria meeting.
United States Senator John McCain tweeted:
Got reports that Syrian journalist Ali Mahmoud Othman is held & tortured by Assad forces- world must call 4 his release Othman´s detention has been widely shared on Twitter, mainly under the #freeothman tag.
Netizens have also started a petition to demand his release.
Journalist Randa Habib brought attention to the danger faced by Othman and activist Noura Aljiwazi, who disappeared in Damascus on the same day:
Figures of #Syria resistance Ali Mahmoud Othman & activist Noura Al-jizawi, arrested, their live in danger: Reporters Without Borders (RFS)
Six days after Othman's arrest, friends posted the following message on Facebook:
It is the 6th night without Ali's voice or warm words.
It is the 6th night Ali sleeps hands tied, exhausted from torture.
It is the 6th night and Ali's name has reached as far as Australia, people demanding for his freedom.
It is the 6th night, the revolution has no Ali.
One of the heroes of Baba Amr, now a hero of the revolution.
His good deeds repeated daily by those he saved from injuries, journalists, friends and family.
Freedom for Ali Othman, one of the bravest men to exist.
Syria: Crackdown Against Journalists Continues · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protests 2011/12.
With thousands killed, tortured, arrested and disappeared, the Syrian struggle continues amid unprecedented brutality.
In its attempt to silence activists, the regime has stepped up its crackdown against journalists, bloggers and video activists.
Salma Yafi, a student of journalism and member of the National Development Party, is one of the regime's latest victims.
Yafi was arrested after becoming a member of the National Development Party, a new party officially and legally registered in line with the government's new "multi-party reforms".
On February 15, the Syrian government announced that the Parties Affairs' Committee would license a new party called the National Development Party, raising the number of parties accepted in Syria to six.
According to a member of this party, activists from the group share the core demands of protesters but have opted for political and legal means to achieve those demands.
Activists have highlighted the contradiction between announcing reforms and arresting citizens who vow to take part in them. @Gab tweeted:
@Gab: Hold #Assad responsible: Young Salma Yafi registered with government as part of reforms, now she´s arrested.
Please use #SalmaYafi to raise awareness.
Announcing reforms while continuing the crackdown on activists has been a trend since the Syrian uprisings started, exactly a year ago today, and more and more journalists have become the target of the regime.
Turkish journalists Adem Ozkose and Hamit Koskun have also disappeared in Syria, which has prompted a huge reaction online, particularly among Turkish netizens.
Journalist Jamal ElShayyal tweeted:
@jamalAljazeera: I shared a cell with #AdemOzkose when #Israel detained us after the flotilla attack.
He was 1 of 2 journos to smuggle pictures out #Syria
Source: facebook.com/UniteforSyria
While the crackdown continues, international political representatives do not seem to agree on how to put an end to the massacre.
Syrians, however, are not alone.
The Syrian struggle has garnered support from citizens all over the world and a big global campaign is planned for today (March 15), Unite for Syria, to stop one year of bloodshed.
Syria: Activist Rima Dali Arrested in Damascus for Calling for End to Killing · Global Voices UPDATE: 10 April: Friends have confirmed that Rima Dali was released at 2 pm on Tuesday.
Two other activists, Ali Dahna and Hussam Zein, were arrested today for holding the same banner during a sit-in near Qasr el-Adli, in Damascus. 9 April: To protest Rima´s detention and that of all Syrians imprisoned since the beginning of the regime´s brutal crackdown against all forms of opposition, activists have opened a Facebook page called "Stop the killing.
We want to build a country for all Syrians" , where they call on people from Damascus to concentrate in front of the Parliament at 6 pm (the time when Rima held the banner calling for an end to killing): فقط الجميع يحضر لافتة حمراء مكتوب عليها باللون الأبيض : أوقفوا القتل نريد بناء وطن لكل السوريين To protest against the daily death and killing of Syria, we will gather in front of the Parliament tomorrow at 6 pm.
With no slogans, no signs, no flags.
Only a red banner reading in white letters: "Stop the killing.
We want to build a country for all Syrians."
These were the words on the banner that Rima Dali held in front of the Syrian Parliament in Damascus on Sunday, April 8.
Activists say she was arrested right after that.
The following video shows Rima bravely holding the banner in front of cars while a group of women applaude her gesture.
Activists have denounced her arrest and that of Saffana Baqleh, who was with Rima at the time of her arrest.
Saffana was arrested for trying to stop the authorities from taking Rima.
Rima Dali in a candle-lit vigil for Syrian martyrs in Damascus.
June 2011.
Image source: Facebook
Rima Dali, 33, is from the port city of Latakia.
She graduated with a degree in Law at the University of Aleppo.
She is currently a Training and Capacity Building Associate for the United Nations Development Program and a volunteer with the Red Crescent.
She is well known for her work on the campaign "Homs is in our hearts" to bring humanitarian aid to Homs.
Quoting Martin Luther King, this was Rima's last update on her Facebook profile:
"The means we use to achieve our goals must be as pure as our goals"
Video Highlights: Culture, Human Rights, Online Activism and Crowdfunding · Global Voices
The Earth, image by Esparta Palma CCBy on Flickr
Culture
India: The Last Handwritten Newspaper in the World
The earliest forms of newspaper were handwritten and now ‘The Musalman‘ probably is the last handwritten newspaper in the world.
This Urdu language newspaper was established in 1927 by Chenab Syed Asmadullah Sahi and has been published daily in the Chennai city of India ever since.
Azerbaijan: Novruz Bayram Alongside Iran and elsewhere, Azerbaijan once again celebrated Novruz, the Zoroastrian or Persian New Year.
Usually celebrated on the day of the vernal equinox, Novruz marks the first day of Spring, and is one of the most important dates in the Azerbaijani calendar.
This next promotional video prepared for Eurovision shows how the holiday is celebrated in Azerbaijan.
Human rights and videos
Ethiopia: Child Abuse Caught on Mobile Phone Camera
Ethiopian Facebook users have reacted to a mobile phone recorded YouTube video which shows a little girl constantly being abused by her mother.
Shortly after the upload of the video, netizens on Facebook organized an online campaign for justice by starting a Facebook group called “Ethiopians Against Child Abuse”:
Warning: the video shows situations of child abuse.
This month also saw other reactions in Ethiopia regarding human rights abuses, in the next case, an Ethiopian domestic worker was beaten by her employers in front of the Ethiopian Embassy in Lebanon, and it was captured on video.
Sadly, she committed suicide shortly after.
Ethiopia: Outrage Over Abuse of Ethiopian Domestic Worker in Lebanon
Ethiopia Lebanon: Online Outrage Over Death of Domestic Worker Turns into Activism
http://youtu.be/aJeoGYG2Nfc
The graphic nature of the video together with the tragic end of the plot left Ethiopians netizens outraged.
Ethiopians have been using Facebook and online petition sites to mourn her death and campaign for justice for domestic workers in the Middle East.
Online activism
Kony 2012 Special Coverage Page
With the Kony 2012 campaign, discussions increased online on the topics of online activism, its efficiency and how media portrays the conflicts and situations lived in different African countries.
A Special Coverage page was created to follow the reactions on the polemic video with Ugandans weighing in on the topic:
Uganda: Kony 2012 Video Response from Ugandan Prime Minister
On the YouTube comments for the previous video, Ugacentricity gives credit to the intentions behind the Invisible Children's video, but defends the need for an accurate portrayal:
No doubt, Jason's intentions MAY have been good, but he threw truth and fact out in favour of drama and innuendo.
True, he may not have got the 100 million+ viewers, but the end doesn't always justify the means.
As a Ugandan who was affected by Kony, I'd rather have had 100 people listening to the truth in my story than 100 million believing the untruths in it.
A series of video responses made by people inspired by the original Kony 2012 video can be found in the post Uganda: Yes We Kony!.
Other examples of online activism:
Online activism continues in the following examples of stories posted during the month of March 2012:
In Puerto Rico, an organization is seeking to raise awareness on the dangers and risks of planning unnecessary C-sections on women expecting babies through a music video.
In Russia, sex and videos were used as a means for political support by Putin supporters and detractors during the Election season, and this article walks us through some different examples.
In Latin America, women who had breast surgery with faulty implants are taking to the web to get their stories out and gather support.
Through blogs, online forums, Facebook groups and online videos , women are talking about the high incidence of cosmetic breast enhancements, on financial responsibility for the removal of faulty implants and on the legal aspects of dealing with medical procedures that go wrong.
Crowdsourcing
Nicaragua: Film on the Consequences of a Leaked Sex Video Seeks Crowdfunding
An award-winning team of producers and actors is coming together in rural Nicaragua to make a movie based on actual events exploring the consequences of a couple of young people in love who make an intimate video of themselves which then becomes public by mistake, and how they deal with the backlash of their actions.
They are looking for extra funding to cover costs on location in Matagalpa, Nicaragua, and all the money raised will be spent locally.
China: The Uyghur Human Rights Project · Global Voices
A new blog Xianjiang Source interviewed Henryk Szadziewski about the Uyghur Human Rights Project, which aims at promoting human rights and democracy for Uyghurs and others living in East Turkestan.
Do Arab Men Hate Women?
Mona Eltahawy Faces Firestorm · Global Voices
Egyptian-American columnist Mona Eltahawy has once again sparked controversy with an article in Foreign Policy magazine on April 23, 2012, entitled "Why Do They Hate Us?" about discrimination against women in the Middle East.
Eltahawy argues that Arab societies are fundamentally misogynistic and that endless abuses against women, "fueled by a toxic mix of culture and religion" take place.
Many Arab journalists, bloggers and activists have criticized the way Eltahawy frames her arguments, and expressed anger at the images accompanying the article of a nude woman in black body-paint resembling a niqab, arguing these are stereotypical depictions of Arab women.
Foreign Policy has since published responses by five commentators.
Eltahawy writes in the article: Some may ask why I'm bringing this up now, at a time when the region has risen up, fueled not by the usual hatred of America and Israel but by a common demand for freedom.
After all, shouldn't everyone get basic rights first, before women demand special treatment?
And what does gender, or for that matter, sex, have to do with the Arab Spring?
But I'm not talking about sex hidden away in dark corners and closed bedrooms.
An entire political and economic system - one that treats half of humanity like animals - must be destroyed along with the other more obvious tyrannies choking off the region from its future.
Until the rage shifts from the oppressors in our presidential palaces to the oppressors on our streets and in our homes, our revolution has not even begun.
In a post entitled "Mona: Why Do You Hate Us?", Egyptian activist and blogger Gigi Ibrahim writes:
The fundamental problem of Mona’s essay is the context and framework of how she analyzes why women in the Middle East are oppressed and the only reason she could give is because men and Arab societies (culturally and religiously) hate women.
This is offensive to most women I know, who read the article and shared the same view.
Women in the Middle East are not oppressed by men out of male dominance, they are oppressed by regimes (who happened to be men in power) and systems of exploitation (which exploit based on class not gender).
Having women in power in a flawed system will not “fix” the problem either.
We had a women’s quota in Mubarak’s parliament, did that change anything for women in reality?
It was all ink on paper.
Even after revolution, women are consistently used for political grounds by crony political parties.
Explaining why women are oppressed without touching on any of the historical, political, or economical aspects of Arab countries, which are not all the same as she tends to generalize in her article, couldn’t be more delusional than this piece.
Hafsa Halawa in Egypt is not completely against the article:
@Hhafoos: Whilst I disagree w her tone & I certainly don't agree w pictures used, there are facts in Mona Eltahawy's article we can't ignore anymore
Syrian-born Palestinian journalist Dima Khatib also takes issue in a post in her blog, "Love, Not Hatred, Dear Mona!":
We are not weak, Mona, and the Arab revolutions have proved to us that we are stronger than we thought, and the heroines of the Arab revolutions don’t need to be pointed out.
I don’t think we need saviors from the hatred and vengeance of our men, especially since the revolutions have proved that we are more than able to stand shoulder to shoulder with men to achieve progress for our societies.
Your article paints a picture of the Arab society that matches the images of the article: black, bleak, depressing, a painted black body.
You have reduced the problem of the Arab woman to the feelings of men; while she was reduced to pathetic images which perfectly represent the images the West have of her.
Arab society is not as barbaric as you present it in the article, which enhances the stereotype of us in the reader's mind, and it is a stereotype which is frighteningly widespread, and contributes to the widening cultural rift between our society and other societies, and the increase of racism towards us.
Lebanese-American journalist and blogger Roqayah Chamseddine commented in a post entitled "Us and Them: On Helpless Women and Orientalist Imagery":
Not only has Eltahawy demonized the men of the Middle East and confined them into one role, that of eternal tormentors, as her Western audience claps and cheers, she has not provided a way forward for these men.
Are they eternally damned?
Is this their own manifest destiny, one which has been predetermined at the point of conception?
Do they have no way out of the sweeping accusation which brands them as natural haters of women?
What of male feminists, are they forever struggling against their innate urge to hate women?
Mona Eltahawy has penned both men and women into a non-negotiable situation, charging men with hatred and women with helplessness; and as a woman of colour, of Middle Eastern origin, I will not allow my voice to be co-opted.
Mona Eltahawy may be one of us, but she is not “us” nor does she define us.
Egyptian human rights activist Hossam Bahgat tweeted:
@hossambahgat: "Muslims hate their women" is no different from "Muslims are essentially violent". what a great disservice to our fight
In a post called "I don't really think they hate us!", assistant professor of journalism Nahed Eltantawy referred to "the empowered Arab women of the Arab Spring":
When I look at these Arab heroines, who have made their people proud, I don't see hate.
I see love, compassion and understanding between young men and women who are willing to work together to create better lives, more freedoms and more just governments for everyone.
So, to Eltahawy, I say that your column does not represent me as I don't feel hated.
I do have concerns, which might be similar or different to my sisters in Egypt.
But I'm confident that whatever social, cultural, political and economic problems I personally face, these are challenges that can be fought instead of simply blaming them on misogyny.
Ayesha Kazmi, who blogs as American Paki, was disappointed at the way Eltahawy's article "spectacularly splintered feminism":
To claim that the “real war on women is in the Middle East” stakes the legitimacy of Arab women in the war against women, that I view as a global phenomenon not unique to Arab women, while leaving millions of non-Arab women, also victims of systemic misogyny, to fend for themselves.
Mona has dangerously isolated non-Arab women from a war that is global.
If Mona wanted to specifically address the plight of Arab women, she should have done so without appropriating the entire war as uniquely her own.
Take the greater Muslim world for example, could she honestly look an Afghani or Pakistani woman in the eyes and read the title of this piece to them without recoiling?
US-based Middle East scholar Shadi Hamid ‏commented:
@shadihamid: Whatever you think abt @monaeltahawy's piece, says a lot that the very ppl she's trying to "liberate" seem to mostly disagree w her.
This post was written with input from the Global Voices Middle East and North Africa team.
Spain: Barcelona Sieged During European Central Bank Meeting · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis. On May 2, 3, and 4 the European Central Bank meeting took place in Barcelona, Spain, a city that became sieged by the police: 8,000 police were drafted into the Catalan capital, a total of 2,300 national police officers and 1,200 civil guards, plus 4,500 troopers (Mossos d’Esquadra).
For this meeting, Spain temporarily (from April 28 until May 4) suspended the Treaty of Schengen on the border with France.
The Schengen agreement eliminates internal border controls between some European countries and creates only one external border where entering controls to the Schengen Area.
The Schengen Area comprises only some of the member states of the European Community.
Barcelona, police city. http://t.co/QlZ3g0bJ
‏
Spain: The "Indignados" of the 15M · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis. The date for the first citizen protest in Barcelona to celebrate the first anniversary of 15M (May 15th) was on Saturday 12M (May 12th) at 6pm in Catalunya Plaza.
Sixty-one year-old Mari Ángeles left her place in El Prat, a neighborhood close to the airport within the city limits.
With a group of neighbors, she took the banners they had prepared and rode the bus to Spain Plaza.
There they met other members of the "southern column" which had already marched for a couple of hours starting at Cornellà near mid-day.
Miguel Ángel, 44 years old, joined the protest when it was passing by Esplugues.
Sixty-nine year old Josep Maria did the same when it arrived to the Les Corts neighborhood.
Karlos, also 44, stepped in carrying a backpack with all the necessary items to camp at the plaza until 15M.
Miguel Ángel. Photo by Lali Sandiumenge. All except Karlos, who lived in Mexico some years and supported the Zapatista movement, had never been involved in any social or political activity before 15M.
Since May 15th, 2011, they haven't stopped.
Mari Ángeles is a member of the platform El Prat against cuts that denounces the austerity measures with which the Catalan government is amputating the welfare state; Miguel Ángel belongs to Aturem Eurovegas (Stop Eurovegas) to prevent the multimillionaire American mogul Sheldon Adelson to transform Llobregat river delta into a huge and complex casino and entertainment compound.
Josep Maria has signed in recently to Iaioflautas, a group of retired workers hardened by the anti-Franco, left-wing, union struggle.
Karlos has found an escape valve.
“I'm living this wake up with a lot of hope," he said.
"We, the restless people, were in a helpless situation and with 15M we found each other.”
Josep Maria.
Photo by Lali Sandiumenge.
“I have neighbors that are agonizing.
If we keep going this way, there's going to be a civil revolution.”
There's no need to ask Josep Maria what he's thinking: the banners that cover his body are very eloquent.
“We denounce is that in our society nobody cares about inequality and that the 1% and 99% is not about entelechy," he commented to sum it up explaining that has researched and asked about the income levels of Spanish people - without success - to elaborate his own Lorenz curve.
The outrage is so high, he added, that he doesn't rule out camping and spending the night at the plaza even though he is not young enough to be sleeping out in the open on top of anything.
There are also personal reasons.
Miguel Ángel, a creative, lost his job at the Spanish auto-maker Seat four years ago and he hasn't been able to find another one.
His strike subsidy is over and he's been struggling to live with what is left from his compensation.
Mari Ángeles.
Mari Ángeles was forced to take an early retirement a year ago from a private health company.
Her pension doesn't even reach 500 Euros free of taxes and it is not enough to live with her son, a grown man, so now they share his home.
"My son is at the strike.
He's studying English like crazy so he can look for a job outside in England or Canada," she explained, although she interrupts herself often to join the chants her companions make to the cars that get impatient with the protest: "Don't look at us, join us!"
Josep Maria, on the contrary, has a good pension.
"If the distribution of wealth was more just, I would end up losing," he declared while walking to Catalunya Plaza without hurrying, but also without pausing.
Desi (left) and Raquel collecting signatures for ILP.
Photo taken by Lali Sandiumenge.
When it arrived to Catalunya Plaza, at the end of Grace Roadway, the protest converged with other columns that arrived from other parts of the city and beyond.
At that spot, Desi and Raquel, 33 and 31 years-old respectively, installed a portable table to collect signatures to support the Popular Legislation Initiative (ILP) promoted by the Plataform of Mortgage Victims (PAH) that is fighting for the approval of a law that rules a retroactive payment.
Both are dressed up in the green t-shirts that distinguish this group with the name of one of their main campaigns: Stop Evictions.
Raquel also voluntarily participates in PAH since she took part of an action to prevent a family from her hometown to be evicted.
Desi is one of the victims: it's been six months since she cannot pay the mortgage and there's no way to reach an agreement with the bank to hand in the apartment in exchange of the debt that adds up to almost 250,000 Euros.
Spain: Arts Also Blossom in the Global Spring · Global Voices This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis.
From May 12 (12M) to May 15 (15M) , Spain has experienced a social movement in the streets to protest the control of the banks and demand a system that is more democratic, participatory, and fair.
With the expansion of demonstrations and general discontent, the 15M movement achieved its goal of growing and remaining in the street.
Citizen collectives continue to act through popular assemblies, commissions, and work groups that allow for debate on topics that affect the people and carry out acts of cooperation.
Many countries have been inspired by the "indignant" Spaniards, and protests continued to demonstrate their global character on October 15 of last year, with demonstrations in over 900 cities and 82 countries.
On May 12, 2012, demonstrations were organized once again throughout all of Spain and on a global level.
The arts have also blossomed with the 15M.
Blog Voces con Futura (Voices with a Future) publishes a large portion of the anonymous posters that have filled the plazas during the protests.
The author of the blog is a Spanish designer residing abroad that wants to maintain her anonymity and dedicates her attention to the creative talent that has risen as a result of the indignant movement.
To commemorate the 15M's first anniversary, the 12M-15M events, and to invite everyone to take to the streets again, the blog # Acampadasol has published a series of amazing posters that reveal many of the reasons for the protests.
Here we share some of the beautiful and creative posters: "Another world is possible"
"We remain in the squares"
"If you steal, do not govern" "We don't want reforms...We want a different system"
All images were published under the CC BY 3.0 License.
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis.
Spain: "Wanted: The Ones Responsible for the Crisis" · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis. Following the departure of Rodrigo Rato as chairman of the financial institution Bankia, with over a million euros in indemnity payments and without any kind of explanation as to why the bank has ended up in its current state, groups of activists linked to the 15M movement have created a digital platform called 15mparato (which literally means "15M for Rato", but "rato" in Spanish also means "quite a while": "15M for a while").
With this digital project they aim to follow the Icelandic model and make the people responsible for the crisis accountable, and even to be prosecuted for how they managed the financial institutions which have caused the current socioeconomic crisis.
The hashtag #nurembergfinanciero (#financialnuremberg) has been created on Twitter to raise awareness of the causes and the culprits of the crisis:
Spain: The First Anniversary of the Indignant Movement · Global Voices
The initiatives to commemorate the first anniversary of the 15-M (15 May) or Indignant Movement keep cropping up.
Among them is this video by the group Informatbcn , where several Attac Europe representatives are interviewed concerning this phenomenon.
Opinions are gathered from Iceland, France, Greece, Austria, and Germany.
Informatbcn started in Barcelona during the 15-M (May 15, 2011) to promote reflection and critical thinking.
Their slogan, as well as their name, is the Catalan word "informa't", which means "inform yourself".
Here's the video "15M one year after by Attac Europe":
Attac (Association for the Taxation of Financial Transactions and for Citizens' Action) is an international organization part of the alter-globalization movement against financial neoliberalism.
Spain: Madrid Preparing for "Indignado" Anniversary · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis. A year ago, people in Spain awakened to how the devastating crisis they are facing was being managed.
The peaceful protest - with no attachment to any political party - against the financial and political powers grew into a solid movement called "indignados" that went out to the streets nationwide to protest and organized a sit-in at the emblematic and centric Plaza del Sol in Madrid.
The roads that lead to Plaza del Sol in Madrid.
Taken from Madrilonia.org under CC BY-SA-3.0 license.
Now, after the government shift, the situation keeps worsening and more motives are coming up to keep on protesting.
The austerity reforms that affect most Spaniards have strengthened the general discontent.
The will for political and social changes towards a bigger democracy is growing.
So, as it happened on last October 15, 2011, a global protest is expected to mark the first anniversary of the 15M (May 15).
The anniversary of 15M will be celebrated throughout Spain and promises a May full of citizen initiatives led mainly by neighbors and town assemblies and citizen groups.
In an interview with Global Voices, Mari Angela, one of the coordinators and a member of the Las Letras neighbors assembly and of the international political group of Madrid, commented on the preparations for this year.
Since February, they have been gathering and agreeing upon an agenda, this month's program and its organization.
The common objective is to achieve the political permanence on the streets of Madrid claiming the right to assembly and free speech.
The organization of such events started on February and is coordinated by an open and wide group composed by several teams, assemblies and commissions.
For this occasion, four teams were put together to take the responsibility for communication and awareness, the protests of 12M (May 12), the sit-in at Plaza del Sol (in downtown Madrid) from May 12 to May 15, and the post-15M activities.
The meetings take place each week at the Casablanca Social Center .
The Wednesday meetings are to align the issues managed by all four groups.
Poster for 12M. Taken from Madrilonia.org under a CC Licence BY-SA-3.0. The calendar has various milestone dates.
On May 1 a popular meal was organized followed by an economy assembly at the Malasaña neighborhood in Madrid.
Various proposals were presented, some initiatives and issues were discussed; among them the rejection of the project to create a European "Las Vegas" in Spain (EuroVegas) and the need to ensure a dignified job.
On May 9, Economy students have the intention to do a sit-in in front of the Health Ministry until May 12 when they will join the rest of the protest.
Also, a meeting is planned next to Madrid's Assembly on May 10 to support a popular law proposal that would make water a public good.
12M is the big Protest Day.
Replicating last October 15, several protests coming from the 4 cardinal points od the city will converge at Sol.
Also several people assemblies, essential in the preparation of the "indignado" anniversary, will meet during the day to arrive at downtown at 21h.
At midnight, the people gathered at Sol will raise a white handkerchief as a symbol against violence, wars and economic warfare.
The great novelty this year is the organization of a Social Forum in Madrid on May 19 and 20 that includes lectures, street talks, and a joint assembly together with Sol's.
On May 26 the Malasaña Assembly proposes to work on the political celebration of the birth of people assemblies in Madrid.
Sol and its surroundings will host various movements that want to communicate their proposals and initiatives throughout theme plazas: the Green Wave for education will stay at Sol, the blue plaza for the defense of public water will occupy Tirso de Molina Plaza, the white one that claims public quality health will sit-in in Santa Ana.
Other issues like economy, housing, unemployment, feminism, environment and culture will also have their space in the capital's downtown.
The great final assembly will take place on May 15 at 7pm at Plaza del Sol.
There, every citizen can approach the Information Point stand from May 1 to May 15 to participate in the assemblies.
In the informational blog Madrilonia.org :
Spain: #NoMoreEuros for Bankia · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis. The Internet in Spain was seething since it was reported this Monday that the government is preparing a plan to inject public money into Bankia, the fourth largest bank in the country and the most exposed to the real estate market.
Since the crisis started in 2008, the government has supported Bankia with 33 billion euros .
The current bail-out plan could be as much as 10 billion.
The news circulated the same day that the the resignation of the head of the financial institution, Rodrigo Rato, was announced. Rato also served as an economy minister in Aznar's government and as president of the IMF (International Monetary Fund).
Rato had been two years in management, first in Caja Madrid and then in Bankia, which was formed in 2010 from a merger of seven saving banks.
For his work, he received 2.34 million euros last year and, and for resigning, he is entitled to an indemnity of 1.2 million.
His proposed successor is José Ignacio Goirigolzarri, who left the BBVA group (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria) in 2009 in exchange for an annual life pension of over 3 million euros.
“Bankia, the rats are jumping ship,” the blog Salmón wrote in an article that has circulated throughout the web :
Guatemala: State of Siege Due to Hydroelectric Plant Conflict · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Indigenous Rights.
The Guatemalan government has declared a state of siege in Santa Cruz Barillas, following demonstrations and clashes sparked by the death of a community leader who opposed the construction of a hydroelectric plant.
Citizens from this community have been using blogs and social networks to report on the current conflict.
Santa Cruz Barillas is located in Huehuetenango, one of the most culturally diverse areas in Guatemala, where members of at least four different indigenous groups live, and where Spanish speakers are the exception rather than the norm.
It is also the place where the cruelest, most brutal acts of genocide were perpetrated by members of the Army back in the 1980s.
The process of peace and reconciliation never arrived there; in some of the massacres there were no survivors left behind.
It is also one of the most impoverished areas with a rate of 79.7% child malnourishment .
The community vs. the hydroelectric plant
The unrest first started with a disagreement between Spanish energy corporation Hidralia Energia (@HidraliaEnergia) and the inhabitants of Santa Cruz Barillas.
According to the company's public relations website, the project complies with environmental regulations.
However, the company did not ask for the community's approval to build the hydroelectric plant.
The entire community , through their legitimate representatives in each and every Community Development Council (COCODE), have opposed the hydroelectric plant, asserting that it will seriously harm the Cambalan river environment, as reported by a Santa Cruz Barillas news portal .
In October 2011, community leaders publicly condemned and rejected the project, and during the following months the confrontation increased.
Back in 2007, more than 46,000 members of the community had voted against mining and hydroelectric companies through a mechanism of public consultation.
Picture by SantaCruzBarillas.org under a Creative Commons License
In late April 2012, allegations of land mines placed around the hydroelectric company to protect it from any disruptive actions triggered a series of protests where citizens expressed their concern and demanded that the company be expelled from the community.
Protesters denounced the mined field at the offices of the police, and later demanded protection and action from the army.
Citizen media connections
In spite of limited connectivity, unstable electricity and geographical isolation - or maybe because of the latter - Santa Cruz Barillas has high quality, interactive citizen media, which is key for understanding the community's dynamics and problems, especially in moments of tension.
During the last weekend of April 2012, villagers in Santa Cruz Barillas were kicking off their local annual festivities, starting with a beauty pageant to elect the 2012/13 Mayan Q'anjob'al beauty queen, as Pancholon reported on his blog .
Several of these activities were even livestreamed , offering an opportunity for the diaspora, especially in Los Angeles, California, to watch the festivities and also become aware of local issues, such as the hydroelectric one.
Blogs represent a bridge between these two communities living so far apart and they share information through a social network called Barillenses , and also use Facebook and Twitter (@barillas) .
Among the disagreements between the community and the company was the obstruction of pedestrian movement in a public area due to the works of the company.
Pancholon reported the incident in his blog and provided a copy of the complaint from the community to the police.
Pancholon also shared his concern that there is pressure on local media to not report on the incident:
India: Protests Against the New IT Rules · Global Voices
In April 2011, the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology of India quietly issued ‘Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules 2011’ restricting web content that are designated as “disparaging,” “harassing,” “blasphemous” or “hateful.”
Rishabh Dara at The Center for Internet And Society cites the rule's chilling effects on free expression on the Internet.
Moreover, the Indian government has asked the United States to ensure that India-specific objectionable content are removed from the social networking such as Facebook, Google and YouTube.
According to news reports they also want these international service providers to set up servers in India to help regulate the content locally.
We have already seen several incidents of online contents being taken down for containing ‘offensive’ content.
Vinaya Naidu shares how the Mumbai Police Crime Branch put a ban on cartoonist Aseem Trivedi's website www.cartoonsagainstcorruption.com, following a complaint that his cartoons were disrespectful to the nation:
There was no legal notice, no court order, no advance warning and not even a letter/email requesting to remove the objectionable content.
And this is the freedom of expression in the world’s largest democracy.
Since then, Aseem has continued to fight against corruption through his blog ‘www.cartoonsagainstcorruption.blogspot.in’ which is quite under the scanner.
Save Your Voice Facebook Campaign by Aseem Trivedi and journalist Alok Dixit
The discussion forum on ‘Internet Censorship’ at Indiblogger.in captures more opinions on such threats.
Amrit Hallan writes:
To be frank, the Internet scares the shit out of them, especially after WikiLeaks, the unshackled conversations over Twitter and Facebook and social networking-supported civic unrests.
And it’s not just the government; all the agencies, may it be bureaucracy, the conventional mainstream media and the old school businesses that thrive on people’s inability to communicate with each other, would like to throttle the free flow of information on the Internet.
Precisely this is the reason why there is no hue and cry on TV channels on the government’s new censorship drive.
Amrit lists the threats according to the new Information Technology Guidelines notified by the government which will create an Orwellian world.
Internet Democracy project quotes Anja Kovacs talking about the background on such rule:
Since its founding, the independent Indian nation-state has wielded censorship as a tool to both contain the conflicts that emanate from India’s tremendous diversity and to ensure its homogeneous social, moral and political development.
But if the advent of satellite television already revealed the vulnerabilities of this strategy, the Internet has of course made clear that in the long term, it is simply untenable.
India’s use of censorship as a way to ensure national harmony has of course to some extent always had to elide, and silence, the enormous diversity within Indian society itself; censorship always benefits the status quo, and the Indian case has been no different.
This video by Internet Democracy Project shows the impact of the new IT rules:
The Indian Netizens are not sitting idle.
This petition titled "MPs of India: Support the Annulment Motion to Protect Internet Freedom #stopitrules" is circling in the web and more and more citizens are signing.
On April 22, several organizations and forums issued this press release which revealed:
In view of the possible deleterious effects of the Rules, the Honorable Member of Parliament, Shri P. Rajeeve has moved a statutory motion to get the aforesaid Rules annulled.
This motion has been admitted and will be coming up before the Rajya Sabha during the second half of the Budget session of the parliament that starts on 24th of April, 2012.
The press release calls all MPs to support the annulment motion.
In the meantime a public interest litigation, calling the amended IT rules "unconstitutional", has been filed in Kerala.
Here is a list of more campaigns: Internet Democracy project organized a day-long training program on freedom of expression and censorship for bloggers called ‘Make Blog Not War’.
Aseem Trivedi and journalist Alok Dixit have started campaign on Facebook titled ‘Save your voice which highlights many protests.
A tumblr site publishes pictures of individuals holding the placard "Don't Censor me".
Don’t Censor Me - Pranesh.
Image courtesy http://dontcensormeindia.tumblr.com/Protests are going in several parts of the country against the IT rule.
Ashfaq reports about a protest on 21 April:
FreeSoftware Movement Karnataka(FSMK) organized a protest to show our concern over these vaguely made laws.
Blogger's, students, Teachers, IT professionals, Photographers came together in the center of the city shouting slogans and holding banners showing their apathy towards this new rule.
Protest at Karnataka.
Image Courtesy Ashfaq at Just Another Coincidence.
Click on image for more pictures
Being among them I felt the power of connectivity, an air of pride, of struggle for freedom.
People sang in vigor, held placards and shouted slogans to save the internet.
I really hope the Indian government keeps the democracy alive by not passing the bill.Let's all strive for betterment of the society and let freedom of expression prevail.
Freedom in a cage campaign.
Image Courtesy Save Your Voice.
Another protest by Save Your Voice titled "Freedom In A Cage" was held in April 22, in Delhi's Jantar Mantar.
Check the report and the pictures at the Kafila blog.
Remembering Murdered Activist, Vittorio Arrigoni · Global Voices
On April 15, 2011, news came of the kidnapping and then murder in Gaza of Vittorio Arrigoni, a member of the International Solidarity Movement, an event which sent shock waves through the world of international activism, its ripples felt far beyond the online world.
Vittorio Arrigoni in Gaza, from his Facebook profile.
Vittorio, better known as Vik, provided a first person account of Gaza and Palestine on his blog Guerrilla Radio, concluding each post with the message Restiamo umani (Stay Human).
The blog is still active today, thanks to the efforts of friends and collaborators, who keep his memory and engagement alive by documenting and describing the everyday lives, difficulties and violence suffered by Palestinians in the Gaza strip.
Facebook pages in several different languages have been created and dedicated to his memory.
A year after his death, many initiatives have been organised to commemorate his courageous defense of human rights and support of the Palestinian cause.
Events and demonstrations are planned for various cities in Italy (for a complete list see this Facebook page), but there will also be events in several European cities, including Paris , Madrid , Cologne and Palma de Mallorca , as well as in Gaza, Ramallah and in Cairo .
Demonstration in Gaza in memory of Arrigoni - April 15 , 2012, from Facebook
The independent news network Globalist.it is running a retrospective of Arrigoni's work and writings (some of it previously unpublished) and has allowed friends, writers and journalists ample space to share their memories and stories of Arrigoni.
Another initiative, established with the support of Arrigoni's family, has taken the form of a reading movie, produced thanks to a crowdfunding initiative which ended on March 31, 2012.
Nineteen international figures (including Tariq Ali, Noam Chomsky, Brian Eno, Stéphane Hessel, Luisa Morgantini, Moni Ovadia, Ilan Pappé and Roger Waters) who have, in the past, shown interest and engagement, from a cultural or humanitarian perspective, with the tragic consequences of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, have agreed to "lend their voices" to the reading of 19 chapters of the book Gaza - Restiamo Umani (Gaza - Stay Human), a collection of Arrigoni's articles written during his months in Palestine as part of the "Piombo Fuso" operation.
The trailer for the film "Gaza - Stay Human" :
In addition to the commemorative events there is also an important and significant initiative being organised by the international Freedom Flotilla network.
On Sunday, April 15, an international mission of 1,500 Italian and international activists will set out to "break the isolation and the siege of Palestine".
On the initiative's site they declared:
China: The Heroine Behind Chen Guangcheng's Escape Arrested · Global Voices
Blind civil rights activist Chen Guangcheng who had been under house arrest for 20 months since his release from prison on September 8, 2010 has finally escaped from Dongshigu Village in Shandong province.
On the other hand, He Peirong ("Pearl") who helped Chen escape to Beijing has been swept away by police from her home in Nanjing on Friday April 27, 2012.
Since February, 2011 Pearl He has been trying to visit Chen Guangcheng under house arrest while campaigning for his release.
A few months ago I interviewed her briefly about her activist's path for a research project on Gender and Citizenship conducted by the organisation IT for Change.
Below is a summary of the online interview:
Who is He Peirong?
He Peirong's profile picture at Twitter
Pearl lives in Nanjing city, Jiangsu province.
She had been an English teacher until 2008 when the Wenchuan Earthquake took place.
She left her job and went to Sichuan as a volunteer for earthquake relief work.
A few months later, the Sichuan government started cracking down on citizen initiated disaster relief groups and a citizen investigation of bean-dreg school building constructions.
A number of activists including Tan Zuoren and Huang Qi were arrested.
Then Pearl decided to join an activist group to provide assistance to political prisoners and their families.
Her first campaign consisted of fundraising via Twitter.
Through the campaign, she was connected to a wider network of like-minded people and later decided to campaign for Chen Guangcheng.
In September 2011, upon learning that Chen's 6-year-old daughter could not attend school due to illegal house arrest, she urged other netizens to visit Chen's family in Dongshigu Village.
She tried entering the village twice herself but was beaten up by local thugs.
After several failed attempts, she changed her strategy to online campaigns by raising public and international awareness of Chen's condition. , one of the most well known action is the "Free Guangcheng: Dark Glasses Portrait" by Hexie Farm:
Pearl never gave up on the idea of getting Chen physically out of the village.
Now Guangcheng is free and has spoken out to the world on the illegal prosecution committed by local government in Linyi county, Shandong province.
However, Pearl has been missing since April 27 shortly after the news of Guangcheng's escape spread through the Internet.
Her last tweet is about the safety of Guangcheng's brother:
Saudi Arabia: Protests to Free Detainees Held Without Trial · Global Voices
The kingdom of Saudi Arabia is believed to have thousands of detainees who were not allowed access to trials and many of them do not even know their charges.
The families of detainees have been working the past months through social media to spread the word and have finally decided to take their cause to the street. @e3teqal, an account on Twitter, published information about the protest right before it started to avoid a heavy security turnout.
Days before the protests, the account posted this invitation which showed drawings of detainees the way the Palestinian prisoners were symbolized in a late social media campaign:
The account also posted a photograph confirming the participation of the detainees' children in the protest:
The protest happened in Sahara Mall in the capital Riyadh and another took place in Al-Qasim region.
Those are few pictures of the Riyadh protest posted by the same Twitter account mentioned above:
This picture from Al-Qasim protest was posted by @e3teqal too:
Sign reads: Haila Al-Qasir was sentenced to 15 years in jail for calling for justice, is that fair?
We stand in solidarity with our brothers in Riyadh; we could not come because our male guardians are in jail.
News of arrests was published online soon after the protests.
Also read:
Saudi Arabia: “Release Our Detainees or Put Them on Trial!”
China, Hong Kong: 'Happy Ad' for Student Abortions Ignites Debate · Global Voices
A hospital in mainland China has advertised a special installment payment package for university students, for getting abortions conveniently, in the event of accidental or unwanted pregnancies.
The hospital's marketing poster has caught the attention of Hong Kong's netizens and has triggered a moral debate.
Hospital's happy ad
The hospital's poster, showing three girls jumping with joy because now they can pay by installment for abortion.
Public Image.
The advertisement copy states that:
Cuba: Havana Hosts Social Networking Festival · Global Voices
The Festival Clic or "Click Festival" was hosted last week in Havana, Cuba, organized by bloggers on the island, most notably Yoani Sánchez, author of the blog Generación Y and founder of the Cuban Blogger Academy.
The event had the support of the Spanish social web event EBE and the independent Cuban organization Estado de SATS , which generally evades government control, organizing debates, conferences and expositions about the future of Cuba and its transition towards democracy.
In a post on her blog , Yoani Sánchez presented the objectives of the event, which she considers to not be obliquely political; but rather, focused more generally on the blogging community:
The event is driven by various organizations, groups and individuals of civil society, but doesn't pander to any of their particular interests.
Its character is technological, not ideological.
El logo del Festival Clic With this festival, the organizers hoped to counteract other events revolving around social media that have been organized by the Cuban regime and made possible by journalists and bloggers who toe the government line.
Sánchez wrote:
We won't use any type of political segregation, nor will we use an ideological criterion for selecting participants — and we surely won't participate in the exclusionary tactics that other Cuban blogger and Tweeter conventions have suffered.
Without specifically citing it, Sánchez was referencing the convention Blogazo x Cuba: Primer Encuentro de Blogueros en Revolución, which was celebrated in Matanzas and organized by the pro-government blog collective La Joven Cuba.
The event's final declaration made the organizers' political agenda explicitly clear, expressing unfavorable opinions of bloggers who criticize the regime, dissidents who have been dubbed "mercenaries" by the pro-government community.
The event also generated an intense debate between bloggers tolerated by the regime.
The Festival Clic was held from June 21st until the 23rd and included sessions focusing on Twitter, netizens' rights, and the current situation of digital publications in Cuba.
There will also be workshops exclusively dedicated to technology.
Egypt: Introducing the MorsiMeter · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage of Egypt Elections 2011/2012. On June 24, a new president has been officially declared in Egypt and his name is Mohammed Morsi.
The Muslim Brotherhood's Morsi has become Egypt's first freely elected president, and like all other candidates, he has his own presidential program and promises that voters - supposedly - elected him based on.
But how can Egyptians hold Morsi accountable for his promises and watch the progress in achieving them?
Wael Ghonim tweeted about a new application for that.
@Ghonim: Tracking the performance of #Morsi (Egypt's newly elected president): http://www.morsimeter.com (via @ezzatkamel)
MorsiMeter, Tracking the performance of Morsi, the newly elected president of Egypt
The application is created by Zabatak, (@Zabatak), a non-profit initiative which aims at making Egypt become bribery free, corruption-free and safe.
And on MorsiMeter's Facebook page, they describe the application as follows : The is an initiative to document and monitor the performance of the new Egyptian president, Mohammed Morsi, and we will monitor what has been achieved from what he had promised in his program during his first 100 days in power.
Egyptian netizens shared their thoughts and opinions about the meter on Twitter as follows:
@omarkamel: MorsiMeter NOT a bad idea.
But must also measure how good we think those ideas are to start with.
Security plan SUCKS. @AbdoRepublic: Brilliant idea to assess #morsi 's performance.
The world viewed through 3054 languages in danger of extinction · Global Voices
Endangered Languages is a project started by Google which provides technology to individuals and organisations so that they can tackle the threat of certain languages becoming extinct.
The page contains information, learning materials and text files, sound and video in languages including Aragonese, Ainu, Navajo and Catalan sign language gathered from Youtube, Google Docs and Picasa.
Spain: No to Eurovegas in Barcelona Gathers Momentum Online · Global Voices
El magnat Sheldon Adelson.
Font: Euronews
As more details arrive about the possible arrival of the Eurovegas mega project in Barcelona promoted by the American magnate Sheldon Adelson we are also witnessing an increase in people opposed to the initiative that is being felt strongly in social networks.
After the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Artur Mas, indicated that a project like Eurovegas and the commitment towards knowledge to develop the economy of the country are compatible, and this in turn has produced a lot of criticism online.
The media have spread the opposition to the project and jointly expressed their feeling about the project in a meeting at the Col·legi d’Arquitectes de Catalunya (COAC) together with different organisations of architects and urban planners who have issued a statement :
While waiting for further information from the Government of Catalonia about the Eurovegas project the three Catalan professional organisations of urban and regional planners wish to express through this document three important issues. The first is the perplexity about the procedures so far regarding this issue and secondly, they want to express the defense of the legitimacy of the legal system and the existing regional and urban planning. And finally to alert the people about the precedent value of this procedure that would exceptional in dealing with singularities in the planning system and that until now in terms of scope and scale is unprecedented in Catalonia.
Criticism has not only come from the urban planners, the church have laso voiced their opposition.
The Diocese of Sant Feliu de Llobregat issued a statement against the Eurovegas project, given the fact that if the project comes to Catalonia it would be on land in the region of the Baix Llobregat area.
The most serious objection to the Project is the human price involved that is required to achieve a hypothetical financial benefit.
The human price and the loss of human qualities that this involves would be very real and profound, although this remains hidden next to the mirage of possible benefits.
Meanwhile the deputy mayor of Sant Joan Despí, Elena Embuena, published her opposition to the project in her blog and she said there have been many lies regarding the initiative:
Firstly they spoke about 260,000 jobs and when this number was checked it was discovered that there would be at the most 15,000 jobs in a period of five years, making it a lot less attractive.
And needless to say these are poor quality jobs, as Adelson himself has already pointed out.
The reaction from Catalans on Twitter has been anything but favourable.
Below we have a sample of opinions, but as you will see most are against the project:
@maxmudu Questions about Eurovegas http://www.bisbatsantfeliu.cat/noticia.php?id=148 A lucid and prophetic view from the Bishop of St. Feliu.
@maxmudu Questions about Eurovegas http://www.bisbatsantfeliu.cat/noticia.php?id=148 #BisbatSantFeliu.
A lucid and prophetic view from the Bishop of St. Feliu.
@urian1983 To speak badly of Eurovegas, my father’s excuse is that there is always a Jewish person involved.
You only have to watch TV3, that says it all.
@AturemEurovegas One of tha actions planned for next Monday the 25th(Adelson’s visit): “cacerolada” in front of the CiU headquarters in Barcelona at 7pm!
RT!
In addition to the protests against the project witnessed on Twitter, signatures are also being collected on the Avaaz website to argue against the construction of the mega project in the Llobregat delta.
Spain: "Occupying" the Banks on the Street and the Net · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis. Last week the media announced the most difficult week of the Spanish economy since the arrival of the euro.
The debt crisis is bringing news that is exhausting the patience of the citizens.
The public money injection into Bankia could reach a total of 23 billion euros, but the governing politicians and the managers of Bankia do not seem interested in holding those responsible accountable and make them give explanations to the people about what caused this crisis.
The nationalization of Bankia, furthermore, according to what the president, Mariano Rajoy, has announced, will only be partial: it will allow a restructuring of the bank, avoiding collapse of the economy, but it will return to private hands.
The consequence of this socialization of the losses means that the money will not even be refunded to the public, which is why many citizens are demanding a complete nationalization of the bank.
Faced with this bleak prospect and the denial of the government to investigate the management of Bankia, people in Spain have taken matters into their own hands.
Since the crisis began, popular initiatives have flourished on the streets and the net.
Last month the Indignado movement of Barcelona brought their protest to the building of the La Caixa bank, a movement known as #OccupyMordor (in reference to the towers of the evil forces of the film The Lord of the Rings).
Another similar movement, under the name #OccupyBankia, organized a cacerolada (a protest where saucepans and other kitchenware are beaten to create noise) in front of the Kyo towers of Madrid, headquarters of Bankia.
Another public gathering organized with the same objective as the previous ones, denouncing profiteering, combating evictions and demanding transparency, took place in the Lavapiés neighbourhood of Madrid.
Hundreds of people have gone to a building with empty flats close to Atocha in order to hand them over to people without access to housing.
One of the recurring slogans is "Si Bankia es nuestra, sus casas también" ("If Bankia is ours, their houses too").
A few days ago, the “yayoflautas”, older activists of the Indignado movement 15M, simultaneously protested in Bankia branches in five Spanish cities: Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, Seville and Palma.
They are demanding a "citizen rescue", as well as a clarification of the causes of the catastrophic bank situation.
This veteran group has its own blog in which it has published a manifesto in various languages:
Spain: How Social Networks are Cleaning Up TV · Global Voices
Technological progress doesn't always equate to progress in quality of life.
The case of Spanish TV programming is a clear example of this disconnect of these two.
For several years low-quality content has been broadcast in Spain.
Called telebasura in Spanish (trash TV), it has been a very profitable business model for its low cost production and wide audience reach.
These programs earn lots of money for the television networks by broadcasting the worst facet of humanity, often dwelling on the scandalous or immoral.
The sensational is played up for financial gains which raises serious questions about the ethics and whether the public is being well-served or honestly served by the information in these programs.
A large part of reality shows and gossip or roundtable programs are dressed up with a journalistic appearance.
These are some of the comments of the Manifesto against TV trash , of the Platform For Quality TV:
Spain: Crowdfunding Against the Impunity of the Banks · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis. In view of the indifference of the government and the district attorney’s office to investigate the management of Bankia by it's ex chairman, Rodrigo Rato, people in Spain raised money from donations to submit a complaint before the court and meet the requirements to conduct a legal investigation efficiently.
The initiative has had a massive following in social networks under several hashtags, one of which is #CrowdfundPaRato .
In 24 hours, more than the €15, 000 (Euros) of the required funds were raised, resulting in the collapse for a few hours of the crowdfunding Goteo website .
The organizers are asking to not donate any more money for now since the objective has already been achieved by far.
The website enabled for the crowdfunding project explains the motivation and objective of this project:
Mexico: #YoSoy132, the Beginning of the Mexican Spring? · Global Voices
On Friday, May 11, the presidential candidate of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) Enrique Peña Nieto, attended an open forum with students from the Iberoamericana University.
The meeting was marked with protests from the students who rebuked the candidate in several occasions.
A month had passed on that Friday since the official political campaigns for Mexico's Presidency took off. Such election, up until then, didn't generate any interest among the electorate, mainly because people perceived the top candidate was invincible.
For many, the media coverage of the candidate's visit was biased, like the Mexican Editorial Organization that chose as a headline for its next day edition: "Success for Peña at the Ibero in spite of planned boycott intent" .
This coverage, along with the students' protests, became an explosive mixture that first found an outlet in social media and now has taken its energy to the streets of the main Mexican cities.
Right away, political analyst Denise Dresser (@DeniseDresserG) published on her Twitter account:
Myanmar: Burmese Proverbs · Global Voices
Fifty Viss created a Tumblr account called Zagabon, to collect and publish Burmese proverbs and sayings, along with English translations and context if necessary
China: Tiananmen Political Prisoner Li Wangyang Found Dead · Global Voices
Li Wangyang, a Chinese political prisoner who spent most of his life in detention, was found dead on the morning of Wednesday 6 June, 2012, after being interviewed by overseas media about the June 4 (Tiananmen Square) Massacre of 1989 and the life of political prisoners in China.
Li was released in May 5, 2011, after 22 years of imprisonment, deaf and blind because of torture he had received.
He was a worker activist and participated in the 1989 student democratic movement as a leading figure for Shaoyang city autonomous worker league.
He was arrested after the Tiananmen crackdown and sent to jail for 11 years under the charge of state subversion.
He started a hunger strike in prison and was tortured; the prison guards pulled out his teeth and forced him to eat.
He was briefly released in 2000 but sent to prison again in May 2001 for ten years in a crackdown against the China Democracy Party, this time under the charge of incitement to subvert state power.
Li Wangyang and his sister in the hospital.
Screen capture of Hong Kong Now TV news.
He was interviewed by Hong Kong cable television for a feature story on the 23rd anniversary of the June 4 Massacre. In his interview, he said he would never regret what he had done for democratic reform in China and he was encouraged by the insistence of Hong Kong people on the vindication of June 4 Massacre.
According to the Chinese Human Rights organization WeiquanWang's report , Li's sister found his body hanging from the window frame of a hospital ward in which he was staying at 7am on June 6, as if he had committed suicide.
The police then quickly took away Li's body ignoring the relatives' request for taking pictures of the dead body.
Li's friend refused to believe that Li had committed suicide:
China: In Bo Xilai Saga, Did Social Media Challenge Government? · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage International Relations & Security.
Bo Xilai portrayed as Greek mythology character Icarus, who tried to fly too close to the sun with a set of wings made from wax.
Source: Beijing Cream.
Political struggle, murder, corruption, espionage and diplomatic conflict - the downfall of Bo Xilai from the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) elite ranks has turned out to be a multi-faceted story.
The Bo Xilai affair is also a good example of the disruptive role that social media plays in today’s China.
Despite censorship, discussions on social networks caused international media to prick up their ears.
With the CCP's once-in-a-decade leadership succession scheduled for October 2012, Bo Xilai’s case has jumped to the front page of international and local media.
It has been widely argued that social media has made it unfeasible for the government to keep the story behind the scenes.
However, it is also true that the government has stirred social media to its own advantage.
Did the Chinese government really want to hide Bo Xilai’s story?
Did social media really challenge the government control on information?
The opacity of China’s politics makes it impossible to answer these questions, but they are worth a thought.
Let’s re-cap on how Chinese social media played a major role by apparently forcing disclosure and challenging government control on information.
February 2012
First rumors spread
Wang Lijun, Vice-Mayor of Chonqing, disappears from his post.
Despite censorship, speculation regarding his whereabouts spreads on China’s micro-blogs.
The rumors state that Wang has requested political asylum at the US consulate after falling out of favor with the local high-profile party secretary Bo Xilai, who aspires to a top political post.
Wang may have denounced Bo's implication in the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood.
A “vacation-style therapy”
An official statement on the Twitter-like Sina Weibo says Wang has been temporarily removed from his post for a “vacation-style therapy”.
The phrase becomes an ironic meme on the Chinese Internet.
Where are the censors?
The Chinese government confirms that Wang did enter the US consulate in a post on Sina Weibo that netizens hurry to re-tweet.
The censorship machine not only allows but boosts online discussions, making netizens suspicious.
Blogger C. Custer, from ChinaGeeks writes:
At the moment, Wang is back on the Sina Weibo trending topics list twice.
Searches for “Wang Lijun” (typed correctly) remain uncensored.
It’s quite clear that Sina is not trying to suppress this story at all, which begs the question: is someone at Sina trying to damage Bo Xilai?
March 2012
First rumors confirmed
Official news agency Xinhua makes a double announcement: Wang has been removed from his position and Bo Xilai has been replaced as Chonqing Party Chief by Zhang Dejiang.
Another report confirms that Wang did request political asylum at the US consulate.
Second wave of rumors flows in
In the midst of hectic public discussion on Bo’s political purge, online rumors spread about a coup d’état in Beijing and a confrontation between President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao on one side, and Bo’s supporter Zhou Yongkang on the other.
Talks of coup finally wake the Great Firewall up
Micro-blogging sites Sina Weibo and Tencent Weibo block word search facilities.
Days after the blocking, the government cracks down on social media.
Six people are arrested and 16 websites closed for “disseminating online rumors” that “severely disturb the public order, undermine social stability and deserve punishment”, Xinhua reported.
The same report states Sina Weibo and Tencent Weibo have been “criticized and punished accordingly”.
The two sites halt the posting of comments for three days.
April 2012
Rumors become the truth
On April 10, Xinhua makes two separate announcements: Bo’s dismissal from his position at the CCP Central Committee for "serious discipline violations", and his wife's alleged role in the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood over “economic interests”. Netizens can't get over their surprise.
The rumors that have been flooding the net for months suddenly make it to the covers of all official newspapers.
Jing Gao, from Ministry of Tofu writes:
Weibo user Zhang Xingsheng wrote, “We had already followed the instruction from the higher-up that we’d never believe or spread a rumor.
But today, the rumor became the truth!
I am puzzled!
To believe or not to believe?
This is a question!
China’s 550 million micro-blog users have witnessed a twisted public information stratagem.
Online rumors becoming official truth overnight, endorsed by the same official media that censored and demonized them in the name of social harmony.
Political struggle and corruption
The government insists that Bo’s fall is a fight against corruption that has nothing to do with political struggle.
As details on Bo’s family fortune emerge, public discussion gets heated over the enrichment of party officials.
With corruption debate taking over the press, the government manages to sideline sensitive discussion on political infighting.
Again, Jing Gao reflects:
But one thing is certain.
Before the advent of social media, the government never owed the people an explanation.
Today, with tens of millions of Chinese actively use Sina Weibo, a low murmur of political gossip may have already been amplified and heard by thousands before the internet police step in.
Social media play a major role boosting public discussion in China by breaking systematic cover ups.
However, it seems clear enough that the Chinese government has shown a remarkable expertise in playing with censorship, leaking or blocking information at its convenience to lead public opinion.
Who wins?
Do China’s social media outlets really challenge the government’s control of information?
This post and its translations to Spanish, Arabic and French were commissioned by International Security Network (ISN) as part of a partnership to seek out citizen voices on international relations and security issues worldwide. This post was first published on the ISN blog, see similar stories here.
Africa: Celebrating Humanity through Photos and Videos · Global Voices
An article by BuzzFeed that recently went viral with over 1.6 million Facebook shares, highlighted 21 pictures that will restore your faith in humanity.
Unfortunately, Africa and Africans were absent from the piece.
Despite efforts to change existing narratives, the African continent is still widely known as a leading recipient of international aid and the place where international NGOs come to 'save' the fragile local population.
While there is no denying the enormous needs of the continent, what is often lost in the many humanitarian stories from the region, are the stories of Africans helping Africans.
But there is no shortage of great testimonies of human spirit from the African continent.
Here are a few photos and videos that show that "Africa's got Heart" too:
Protecting fellow citizens during prayers in Egypt:
On February 3, 2011 during the Egyptian revolution, Christians put their own lives at risk protecting Muslims praying at Tahrir Square in Cairo, amid violence between protesters and Egyptian President Mubarak's supporters.
For more background on the context of the photos, see our special coverage of the Egypt protests.
Egyptian Copts protecting Muslims on February 3 on Tahir Square - Public Domain
Welcoming home returning IDPs in Sudan:
Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) returned to their original village, Sehjanna, after living seven years in an IDP camp in Aramba.
They are welcomed by relatives and friends who stayed back.
The voluntary repatriation program is organized by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the Sudanese Humanitarian Aid Commission.
IDPs return to their village and are hugged by the villagers on Flickr by UNHCR (CC license-BY)
Saving elephants in perils in Zambia:
From the Norman Carr Safari in Zambia: "The Kapani Lagoon is a source of drinking water for the animals of the area, as well as the place to go for a relieving mud bath.
Unfortunately though, a young calf was unlucky enough to get stuck in the mud when visiting the lagoon recently.
The calf’s cries attracted her mother who rushed to her rescue, only to get stuck in the mud herself.”
Elephants stuck in mud.
Image by Abraham Banda, Norman Carr Safaris
Team trying to rescue the elephants.
The elephant comes out of the mud.
Overcoming cyclone together in Madagascar:
Cyclone Giovanna made landfall in Madagascar on February 13, 2012.
The cyclone was classified as a category 4, with winds of up to 194 km (120 mph) ripping up trees and electricity towers.
Officials reported that there were at least 10 casualties.
The two main cities in Madagascar, Antananarivo and Toamasina, were out of power for long stretches, marking the darkest Valentine's Day yet in the country.
The cyclone did not dampen the spirit of Malagasy people, who showed resilience and helped one another to move away from the flooded areas, all the while still wearing their brightest smiles.
Citizens helping each other and still smiling despite the flood during Cyclone Giovanna by Twitter user @aKoloina
Helping students with disabilities in Ghana
Emmanuel Ofosu Yeboah is an athlete and activist from Ghana.
Yeboah was born with a severely deformed right leg.
Yeboah rode 380 kilometers across his country to raise awareness and change perceptions of the disabled.
He opened the Emmanuel Education Fund for promising students with disabilities.
Yeboah discussing overcoming disabilities with a child in a wheelchair.
Screenshot from the documentary Emmanuel's Gift
Celebrating peaceful elections in Senegal:
An historical ending to a tense electoral period took place in Senegal on March 25, 2012.
Incumbent president Wade was defeated in the presidential elections after citizens protested for months against his nepotist and authoritarian regime.
In downtown Dakar citizens celebrated the peaceful end of the Wade regime.
Demonstrators show their joy by Nd1mbee on Flickr, used with his permission
Protecting marine life in Mozambique:
Janet Gunter showcases a local NGO, Bitonga Divers, that strives to protect marine life by "making positive links between protecting sea life, tourism and economic development."
Here is a video of their work:
Winning an Olympic heat for Equatorial Guinea, months after learning how to swim:
Eric Moussambani Malonga is a swimmer from Equatorial Guinea.
He gained fame when he won the heat although he had never raced more than 50m before the preliminaries, and was swimming by himself when the two other swimmers in his heat were eliminated for false starts.
Eric confessed that the last 15m were very difficult for him as can be seen in the video.
Yet his willingness to finish the race, while struggling mightily earned him a standing ovation from the audience.
Angola, China: Netizens Discuss New Development Ghost Town · Global Voices
Like many African countries, most people in Angola hardly earn $2 a day.
The government of Angola took a step in trying to develop the country such that it could match other countries in the world.
This time it selected developing apartments in Kalimba, about 30km outside Luanda, the capital.
The government hired a Chinese company, China International Trust and Investment Corporation to do the job and it paid back by giving it the country's natural resource, oil.
The new apartments at Nova Cidade Kalimba.
Photo courtesy of constructiondigital.com
The Chinese company did the job pretty well and built 750 8-storey apartments where each apartment would go for 75000 Euros a price that cannot be afforded by locals even in 20 years.
Blogger Francois-Xavier thinks the government had to use oil to develop local industries, which would provide employment for citizens:
#TwitterEnCatalà Provokes Tweets of Joy and Hate · Global Voices
Note: #TwitterEnCatalà is the Catalan-language hashtag for #TwitterInCatalan.
On July 6, 2012, thousands of Catalan-speaking netizens celebrated the fact that Twitter finally speaks their language.
The hashtag #twitterencatalà quickly became a trending topic in Spain, and Data'n'Press launched twitterencatala.org to monitor the number of users who switch their accounts into Catalan.
Within the first 24 hours, more than 10,000 did so.
Many Twitter users have rejoiced in the website's newest language edition, but many others have expressed their anger at the announcement, tweeting derogatory remarks about the Catalan language and people.
On the positive side, many directly thanked Albert Cuesta, who organized the public petition for a Catalan Twitter, as well as all those who signed it:
Promotional image for #twitterencatala.
Source: www.rogercasero.cat
Mozambique: Diving and Defending Marine Life · Global Voices
Tourists come from South Africa and all over the world to relax on Mozambique's beaches, go on sports fishing expeditions and dive in the warm waters of the Indian Ocean.
It is estimated two-thirds of the Mozambican population lives on the coast and many depend on the ocean for a livelihood from fishing - and often communities near large tourist destinations do not feel money from this tourism circulating.
So involvement of Mozambicans as dive professionals, tourism professionals and conservationists is crucial to a sustainable future for Mozambique's coastal areas.
Whale shark in Mozambique.
Image by Flickr user gigi_h (CC BY-NC-SA 2.0)
Enter the Bitonga Divers - an NGO championed by Mozambique's first dive professional, the inspiring Carlos Macuacua, based in Tofo, a town in Inhambane province.
Quoting their website
In 2006, when Bitonga Divers was formed, there were no Moçambican divemasters or instructors.
Since that time, in partnership with Ocean Revolution and foreign owned dive centers, Bitonga Divers now has trained eight Mozambican Instructors and 11 divemasters.
Image courtesy of the Bitonga Divers
The Bitonga Divers also invest in outreach to communities, showing megafauna and underwater scenes to people living near the coast, many of whom have never been underwater or seen these animals alive.
At first the response was weak, but after years of tireless work, the Divers say they bring together 250 people easily for a night-time session.
Community leaders participate too.
Through this kind of outreach, people begin to make positive links between protecting sea life, tourism and economic development.
Alarm over overfishing
Recently Tofo-based tour operators and community associations have raised the alarm that government programs intended to boost commercial fishing have resulted in overfishing of rays, sharks and dolphins in the area.
As travel writer Aaron Gekoski explains in the online travel magazine Go World Travel
The biggest threat facing Tofo, sadly, is a familiar one.
Overfishing has had a dramatic effect on these waters over recent years.
Only five years ago, divers could be treated to schools of devil rays 300 thick.
Now they are lucky to see 10 at a time.
Gigantic, unforgiving walls of gill nets frequently ensnare manta rays.
Casa Barry, one of the big dive-oriented lodges in Tofo, discusses conservation and brings attention the issue of illegal fishing on its blog, like this post on the rescue and successful release of a loggerhead sea turtle.
The most contentious allegation (made in a recent article in Canal Moz newspaper ), is that the World Bank is financing these government programs, that are designed to help local fisherman to catch more and bigger species.
Mozambican fishermen.
Image by Flickr user stignygaard (CC BY-NC-SA 2.0)
Márcia Horst responded on Reflectindo Sobre Moçambique
Inshore fisheries are extremely lucrative by local standards, with the fins from a single shark being worth around 3000 Mets (approximately US$120).
The documentary "Shiver" was filmed last year with Macuacua and the Marine Mega Fauna Foundation, and goes into depth about the shark fishing problem.
Much of what is caught in Tofo is actually processed and exported out of Maputo to China and Asian markets.
Centro Terra Viva, a Mozambican environmental NGO, describes a bust of a Chinese-occupied house 'illegally processing' marine products last year
Mozambique: Has Social Media Killed Blogging? · Global Voices
On a short series of posts, professor Carlos Serra writes about some of the reasons why Mozambique's blogsphere is fading away.
One reader comments that blogging requires a load of work in order to ensure updates and quality. Whereas Serra says that social media may need to be blamed, despite the pros of its usage.
Portugal: Petition For Galicia to Enter the Lusophone Space · Global Voices
The association MIL - Movimento Internacional Lusófono (International Lusophone Movement) - has written an open letter to the Portuguese Minister of Foreign Affairs, Paulo Portas, addressing the "inflection of the Portuguese State's position towards Galicia".
MIL considers the Spanish region of Galicia as an integral part of the Portuguese language space.
Russia: A Great Firewall to Censor the RuNet? · Global Voices
Earlier today, the Russian language section of Wikipedia repeated past protests against American and Italian Internet laws by shutting down its service and posting in the place of its main portal a public announcement condemning a draft law now under review by the Russian parliament.
Law 89417-6 , "On the Protection of Children From Information Harmful to Their Health and Development," entered the Duma in early June with endorsements from members of all four of the represented political parties, but has since generated rising controversy, with critics portraying the legislation as an attempt to copy China's "Great Firewall."
Screenshot of ru.wikipedia.org's blacked-out homepage, 10 July 2012.
Text reads: "Imagine a world without free knowledge."
What Would the Law Do?
The law would create a registry (or "blacklist") of any online materials containing illegal information relevant to children (specifically child pornography, drug paraphernalia, and instructions about self-harm).
Once a website appeared on the list, the site's hosting-provider would have 24 hours to notify the site-owner, who must then delete the offending data.
If the owner fails to act, the hosting-provider is required to shut down or delete the site itself.
In the event that the hosting-provider fails or refuses to act, it joins the registry and then web-providers must cut off access to that entire hosting-provider.
Anyone included on the blacklist then has three months to appeal the decision in court.
The draft law owes its origins to the "League for a Safe Internet" , which prepared a blueprint for the Ministry of Telecom and Mass Communications this past spring.
At that stage, the plan was to limit the registry to URLs (excluding DNS filtering and IP blocking), and delegate authority over managing the list to a non-governmental organization.
The League's director, Denis Davydov, explained that concerns about Internet society's fear of "excessive state control" motivated this design.
Duma deputies and the General Prosecutor, however , had other plans, and the registry's reach was expanded, and the likely candidate for oversight is now Roskomnadzor (the Federal Supervision Agency for Information Technologies and Communications).
Much of the controversy surrounding Law 89417-6 focuses on worries that its language is intentionally vague, opening the door to future expansions of the registry's application.
For instance, lawyer Evgeny Arievich, a partner at Baker and McKenzie, says that the blacklist could grow to include other types of information illegal under other criminal codes (such as those governing extremism, state secrets, personal data, and so on), and that it could be used to limit access to political information and social mobilization tools.
The most sensitive section of the law seems to be Article 5, Point 4, Sections 1 and 2, where the bill delineates what online information can be added to the registry without a court order and what requires judicial approval.
The following materials (pulled from the draft law after its first reading ) fall within the former category:
Lebanon: It's Back to Kidnapping Time · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protests 2011/12.
22 May 2012: 11 Shiite Lebanese were kidnapped on their way back to their homeland from a pilgrimage in Iran.
The abductors are said to belong to the Free Syrian Army (FSA).
There are many rumors about the victims' fate or even their location.
Their relatives have been protesting in front of the various embassies (Turkish, Qatari) and burning tyres in protest since.
August 13: Hassan Salim el Mekdad, another Shiite, was kidnapped in Syria, allegedly by the FSA too.
These actions might be explained by the fact that Hassan Nassrallah, the general secretary of the shiite Hezbollah Party, has been supporting Syria's president Bashar Al Assad.
In response, the Al Mekdad Family or clan started kidnapping Syrians, who are thought to belong to the FSA, as well as two Turkish citizens.
It has even threatened to target other nationalities such as Saudis and Arab Gulf nationals, prompting various embassies to ask their citizens to leave the country immediately.
In brief, the situation is quite gloomy and nothing is clear yet.
Netizens in Lebanon have commented on all these events.
Dutch journalist Fernande van Tetsbased, who is based in Lebanon, provided some figures about the structure of clans in Lebanon:
If we’re talking figures, I was told the Zaitar clan is 30000 strong, the Moqdad family has 15 0000 member and the Shamas clan 8000.
All these clans operate beyond the reaches of the law and the Lebanese Armed Forces do not dare to enter their territory.
Neither do the Internal Security Forces usually, as the 30 000 outstanding warrants mentioned in the article testify.
Meanwhile, the Lebanese are angry and are blaming everyone.
Zak, from Lebanon Spring, believes that Hezbollah is responsible for all that is happening in the country.
He writes:
Hezbollah is responsible because they set a precedent in May 7 which got everyone to think that the only effective way to fulfill their demands and solve their problems is by violence.
Other results of this jungle-law-thinking are obviously discarding the presence of the government and inciting sectarianism.
So, as a result of that, we got local militias to surface like the Sunni ones in the north (& other places) and Al-Mokdad family militia (as if they didn’t exist before like many other Bekaa tribes), and road blockers like Sheikh Ahmad Al-Assir.
And all of them practise pure chaos.
But the FSA is as guilty as the party:
Free Syrian Army is also responsible by inviting Hezbollah or Shiite community to the fighting field by starting that kidnapping spree.
First with the 11 kidnapped Shia pilgrims months ago, and with Hassan Al-Mokdad last week.
FSA (non-officially) claims the kidnapped individuals to be Hezbollah fighters, but the evidence or scene don’t suggest that.
United States-based Lebanese As'ad AbuKhalil, or Angry Arab, writes for Al Akhbar newspaper's blog, blaming the Lebanese government for the loss of control:
What is clear though is that innocent Syrian workers in Lebanon were subjected to more abuse and more attacks.
Just as the FSA gangs claimed that their hostages are members of Hezbollah, the Mokdads claimed that their hostages were fighters with the Free Syrian Army.
Neither side bothered with providing us with evidence.
The Western and the Saudi/Qatari-funded Arab press ignored the plight of the Lebanese hostages in Syria, just as the failed Lebanese government ignored them.
But there is something dangerous looking over Lebanon and Syria.
The spate of sectarian kidnappings reminded people of my generation of the beginning of the sectarian civil war.
Funky Ozzi recalls the old scenario where Lebanon was just a "playground for the region":
Conclusion?
It's 1990s all over again, it's stupid Lebanese politicians who only care about being rich, it's militias who want to remain in Power, it's a playground for the region.
And finally Syria always drags Lebanon into shit, and this time, its own shit. وحدة المصير والمسار
Of course, there is always mis-information by the media, the 11 kidnapped in Syria have been killed, then the 11 kidnapped were not killed... so what is it?
My analysis might not go in depth because 10 years ago I noticed every news episode was a Deja Vu and decided to only check up on it once in a while.
However, core stays the same, only the players (somehow) change and main victim remains countries like Lebanon whose leaders don't care about it.
Meanwhile, Elie, from A Lebanese State of Mind, notes that there are other Lebanese detainees in Syria, some of whom have been missing for more than 30 years but whom no one has burnt a single tyre for.
He says that in Lebanon there different classes of Lebanese prisoners in Syria:
Every other Lebanese prisoner present in Syrian prisons or still missing because of the Syrian occupation of Lebanon.
Their parents have been protesting for the past 5 years non-stop, asking for any news about their sons and daughters.
They’ve been hearing nothing.
The parents of these men and women don’t want their children to return alive anymore; they just want any news about their children for the sake of a thirty-years stretched out closure.
Even that is too much to ask for.
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protests 2011/12.
Spain: Storming the Streets (and Web) on Catalonia's National Day · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis.
Catalonia's National Day, the Diada Nacional is held every September 11 to remember the defeat of Catalan troops in 1714, during the War of the Spanish Succession, which imposed a rigid centralism in Spain and marked the end of Catalan political autonomy.
This year the holiday will be celebrated following a historic surge in pro-independence sentiment, a fact that has been increasingly clear on the blogosphere and social networks.
The lingering effects of the global financial crisis in Spain and the government's new plans for stricter centralization have further strained the already tense relationship between Catalonia and Spain.
In fact, a June 2012 opinion poll showed that 34% favor independence for Catalonia, as opposed to 28.7% who favor a federal Spain, 24.5% who favor regional autonomy (the status quo) and a meager 5.7% who favor a centralized Spanish state, (6.3% had no answer).
To celebrate the Diada, the citizens' platform Assemblea Nacional Catalana (Catalan National Assembly or ANC, founded in 2009) has organized a joint mass meeting in Barcelona under the overtly separatist slogan 'Catalonia: a new state in Europe' for September 11.
Massive participation is expected. “Catalonia, new state in Europe”.
On Twitter, an almost countless number of pro-independence hashtags have been born (see below), and new ones continue to surface.
Over the last few weeks, hashtags have been directly related to the ANC's Diada rally, including #11s2012 , #11setembre2012 , #marxaANC , and #11sCAT9estat .
A web aggregator has recently surfaced to channel all Twitter and Instagram activity related to the Diada (also available in English), as well as #1balco1estelada , a collection of user-submitted photos of the Catalan separatist flag or estelada hanging from balconies.
The organization Catalans al Món will be offering Catalans in the diaspora who cannot travel to Barcelona the opportunity to virtually participate in the rally.
Various social and political crises in Catalonia, as well as the ever-deteriorating relationship with the Spanish government have been a constant theme on social networks and the Internet over the past few months.
Herein follows a review of recent polemics, debates, and cyber-activism that has stemmed from the conflict between Barcelona and Madrid.
Fiscal crisis
The economic crisis has given way to various online discussions and initiatives.
The Twitter accounts @StopEspoli and @DèficitFiscal follow the evolution of Catalonia's fiscal deficit with Madrid (that is, the difference between the contribution of Catalan taxpayers to the state and the state's investment in Catalonia).
Pro-independence voters and activists tend to point to the region's precariously high deficit as the main cause of its severe financial crisis. (In the wake of meandering negotiations on Catalonia's proposed economic independence, the region's government recently had to ask for a bailout by the Spanish government.)
Hashtags like #espolifiscal (#FiscalTheft) or #espanyaensroba (#SpainIsRobbingUs) have marked the debate on Twitter.
The website espolimetre.cat ("Theft meter") offers realtime deficit calculations and is available in Catalan, Spanish, English, German, French and Italian.
Of course, the unique nature Catalonia's financial crisis is too complex to explain in this post, but we recommend this article, published by the economist Xavier Sala-i-Martin on his blog. One of the most popular and effective citizens' initiatives to surge over the past few months was the 'I won't pay' movement, which spread like a wildfire thanks to the eponymous Catalan-language hashtag, #novullpagar .
Municipal action and military threats
On September 3, the municipalities Sant Pere de Torelló and Calldetenes declared themselves to be "free Catalan territories" with the objective of pressuring the Catalan government to aggressively and directly pursue independence.
A few days earlier, on August 31, Francisco Alamán Castro, a colonel in the Spanish military, threatened military intervention if Catalonia declared independence.
His statements, made during an interview with the far-right (and somewhat marginal) online publication Alerta Digital , exploded in the blogosphere.
Widespread demands for his dimission appeared under the hashtag #DenúnciaAlamán and an intense debate circled around article 8.1 of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, which states the military's purpose is "to guarantee the sovereignty of Spain, defend its territorial integrity and constitutional order."
'Anti-Catalanism' online
For some months now, the initiative @Apuntem has monitored an increasingly hostile, anti-Catalan discourse on Twitter.
While denounced users tend to be marginal, with no more than a handfull of followers, the frequency and (often openly violent) intensity of highlighted tweets point to a culture of open hatred for the Catalan people that is alarming.
One relevant case is that of Àlex Fàbregas, a Catalan Olympian who mentioned in July that he felt more Catalan than Spanish and only played for Spain because "he has no other option" (there is a Spanish law penalizing athletes who refuse to join the Olympic team).
A storm of violent comments towards Fàbregas — including death threats — led the athlete to delete his Twitter account.
Sympathetic users created the hashtag #TotsSomÀlexFàbregas (We're all Àlex Fàbregas) in response.
Efforts to explain Catalan perspectives
In the last few months, Catalan citizens have stepped up their efforts to explain Catalonia's context to the international community as a contrast to the dominant discourse emanating out of Madrid, where foreign correspondants are usually based.
The English-language blog Col·lectiu Emma was founded as a response to the "skewed visions about the Catalan people presented by the international press."
Celebrating the Diada Nacional, Col·lectiu Emma published an essay in six languages in order to explain Catalonia's social context to their European neighbors.
On Twitter, pro-independence, English-language hashtags have arisen, such as #Cataloniaisnotspain or #FreedomForCatalonia. Twitter activists used the former to help organize a collective mass tweet on September 10.
India: Standing Neck Deep in Water to Protest · Global Voices
Fifty one residents of Ghongalgaon village of Khandwa district in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh have launched a 'Jal Satyagraha' protest by standing neck deep inside the backwaters of Omkareshwar dam on Narmada river.
The term Satyagraha (insistence on truth) developed by Mahatma Gandhi is a particular philosophy and practice, which is also known as nonviolent resistance or civil resistance.
The move would submerge lands spread across several villages.
@HarrietLambFT: so many years later narmada activists still fighting on.
@vedforgutuk: See this pic and RT . people standing in Narmada river from last 13 day. what is #Media doing. http://t.co/vf6V5Hh1
Senegal: 'Completely White' Whitening Cream Stirs Outrage · Global Voices
Lightening the skin is a common practice in Africa where the sale of skin lightening products is legal in many countries.
However, the use of these creams is not safe: stretch marks, pimples, hair, hypertension and diabetes are all risks user take.
In Senegal, a whitening product named "Khess Petch" is creating controversy on the web.
Kiné Fatim Diop explains in 'A whiter skin in 15 days':
"Completely white", is how one translates the Wolof expression "Khess Petch", the name of a new cream supposedly with skin whitening qualities.
Amadou Bakhaw DIAW on the site Ndarinfo, writes in 'The "Khess Petch" campaign, an insult to our identity':
Twenty days ago, a new product called "Khess Petch" appeared in the Dakar greater area, on more than 100 billboards of 12 square meters each.
With her blog post, 'A very clear skin at any cost: Understanding the phenomena in Africa', Carole Ouédraogo on the website NextAfrique explains that this phenomenon is common in many African countries:
The researchers estimate that roughly 25 % of women in Bamako, Mali use the skin lightening products... in South Africa 35% ... in Senegal 52% ...
Women in Senegal associate light skin with beauty, elegance and high social status.
One study in Tanzania has revealed that many Tanzanians have also embraced Eurocentric ideals of beauty.
On the blog A Toubab in Dakar, a blog post entitled 'The Xessalisation a.k.a the stupid quest for whiteness' tries to answer the question "Why whiten your skin?":
Some believe that Senegalese man love clear skin, so somewomen whiten their skin to please them.
Other talk of an"inferiority complex" …
Blogger Fatou on Blackbeautybag goes further in his post 'Skin Whitening: Practices, Challenges and Accoutability':
These issues are related to sequels from slavery and colonialism.
From a psychological point of view, the past has left its mark on many people.
The complex of inferiority has not been totally eradicated unfortunately There are girls who aren't feeling inferior to start with, but by dint of taunts coming from the family they take the leap.
Remarks like: YOU ARE BLACK AS THE NIGHT, IF YOU ARE TOO BLACK, NO MAN WILL WANT YOU, and the list goes on and on...
On the feeling of inferiority, blogger Mama Sarate writes a post to generate controversy: 'From Black to White ↗ RACIAL ASCENSION'.
One of the first counters from the blogger community is explained by Kiné Fatim Diop:
Rapidly, a citizen awareness project exposing the risks of the cream grew on social networks.
Launched online on the 8 September, a petition calling for the Ministry of Health to put a halt to the advertising campaign, gathered more than 1,000 signatures in four days.
@K_Sociial on Twitter mused:
@K_Sociaal: I will soon create : "Nioul kouk" you will see.
The girls will become blue! ...
Bloggers and infographics designers took the idea to task and organized a counter-campaign: "We see your Khess Petch (completely white) campaign and we raise its counter: Nioul Kouk (completely black in wolof)".
Spain: Two Journalists on Trial for Revealing Corruption in Catalonia · Global Voices
In 2010, when government cutbacks in response to the financial crisis began to affect healthcare, the magazine's editors began investigating the hospital system in their comarca (district), Maresme, which led them to conclusions about the healthcare in Catalonia at large.
Eventually, Dante and Sibina produced a map of alleged irregularities in the entire system and links to the some of the region's major political parties, including the Catalan Socialists (PSC) and the governing bloc Convergence and Union (CiU).
In support of Albano and Maera, editors of Cafe amb LletAs a healthcare advisor to President Mas, Mr. Via Rodons is implicated in the scandal.
He is suing the Cafè amb Llet editors for €20,000 euros in damages.
Their trial is scheduled to happen before any of the individuals implicated in corruption have been charged.
Mèdia.cat, a critical observer of media in Catalonia, has described the case as follows:
... an another example of the bizarre phenomenon surrounding cases of corruption , including the Gürtel and Brugal affairs, in which the accusers go to trial before the accused. The video detailed cases like that of Josep Prat, director of the Institut Català de la Salut (Catalan Healthcare Institute or ICS) and director of the conglomerate corporation Innova, or that of Ramón Bagó, president and principal shareholder of the utility group Serhs, who over the last few years has occupied various senior positions at Conscorci de la Salut i Social de Catalunya (CSC), another branch of the healthcare system.
A week of litigation could ruin not just the magazine but also its editors, and this led Dante and Sibina to publish a message on their website titled, "We've done everything we can. Now we need your help" .
Herein are some excerpts:
In the wake of silence among Catalonia's political establishment and mainstream media, we decided years ago to get to the bottom of this.
We have found much more insanity than we had ever hoped to find (http://ow.ly/dRqs1%29) .
But as we expected, those who have spent the past thirty years getting rich by cheating the people have reacted and are on the attack.
Despite these attacks, we're staying strong. We won't apologize.
Nothing is better than the marvelous sensation of having remained loyal to our conscience.
In a few years we'll be able to look anyone in the eyes and say: "We did what we could" (http://ow.ly/dRrEJ) .
Having gotten to this point (http://ow.ly/dRrLS), however, we need help.
We can't face these forces alone.
This is why we're writing to you.
On September 27th, at 9:30 AM we will appear in court (http://ow.ly/dRrQT) before any of the individuals implicated (http://ow.ly/dRrYH) in the story we broke (http://ow.ly/dRsba).
We need your help to condemn the brutal censorship that stifles us.
Therefore, if you can dedicate a few minutes and send this letter to your friends, contacts, local representatives, or whomever you consider, you will be doing us a big favor.
Marta and Albano employ reason and rhetoric, grasp important details about a seemingly covered-up and out-of-control issue and they have asked the politicians responsible very appropriate questions.
Time has passed and they're still waiting for answers.
However, in lieu of those answers, open debate and transparency, all they have received is the grotesque attack by Josep Maria Via, one of President Mas' senior advisors.
We interpret this as a blatant attempt to frighten and silence the voices of dissidents who question the healthcare politics of the Catalan government.
On Twitter, hashtags like #ViaVol20mil (#ViaWants20thousand) and #27S (#Sept27) have been used to mark tweets in support of Dante and Sibina and organize a protest at the doors to the courthouse at the start of the trial.
The case, which coincides with a historic moment in Catalonia as the leadership debates independence from Spain, is intertwined with conversations about the government's political agenda in the coming weeks, which currently includes early elections and an official referendum for independence.
Here is a sample of messages:
Controversial Tibet Theme Park Project Launched · Global Voices
Last month, the Chinese government announced that it will launch a RMB 30 billion (USD 4.7 billion) theme park project in Tibet to attract tourists.
The park will first be used as a shooting location for the movie Princess Wencheng, a story about the niece of a Tang-dynasty emperor who married a Tibetan king.
It is located on the outskirts of the city of Lhasa and will occupy 800 hectares of land.
Tibetan dissidents have described the project as the "Disneyfication of Tibet" rather than a genuine sharing and preservation of Tibetan culture.
Putting aside the political and ideological debates, even within circle of Han Chinese, the development project is highly controversial.
Sina Weibo user @1690737580 posted some photos she took from the designated theme park construction site and confessed she felt great pity for the loss of such an environment to the development:
Cijiaolin Village.
Photos taken by Sina User @1690737580
Taiwan: 'National Health Insurance' System in Crisis · Global Voices
Taiwan's National Health Insurance is often used as a 'model for reform' in countries such as the United States where health care depends on a private insurance system.
A recent article written by Princeton professor Uwe Reinhardt in the New York Times blog also praises the efficiency of the Taiwanese system.
Yet, the inconvenient truth unknown to the outside world is that such efficiency is built upon exploitation of medical staff.
Professor Reinhardt's article was written after the 2012 Europe-Taiwan Health Dialogue held in Taipei in July.
He was impressed by a presentation by the Director of the Medical Informatics Center at the Department of Health in Taiwan, who talked about the efficiency of the national health care data system which monitors infectious disease.
Even though Reinhardt acknowledged the fact that Taiwan's health care is underfunded with only 6.7 percent of its gross domestic product going to health care, compared with close to 18 percent being spent in the United States, he is unaware that this low budget is at the expense of medical staff in Taiwan.
The profile picture of TMAL in Facebook
The Taiwan Medical Alliance for Labour Justice and Patient Safety (TMAL) posted a table comparing the cost of some common medical procedures on their Facebook Page.
It shows that in the U.S. 25-350 times higher is charged than what is charged in Taiwan for the same procedure.
The Alliance explained:
Turkmenistan: Goodbye August, Month of Melons · Global Voices
Turkmenistan is often said to be the country with the highest number of public holidays.
Take the 'Drop of water - Grain of Gold' festival in May, or the celebration of the cotton harvest in November as examples of very unusual holidays that Turkmenistan has.
Then add a sprinkling of Soviet, Islamic and pagan celebrations to purely political days off like Neutrality Day on December 12, and it is clear that there is no shortage of opportunities to enjoy pilau outside and take part in synchronized dancing in this isolated Central Asian state.
One of the better-loved public holidays, however, is Turkmen Melon Day, an event formally marked every second Sunday of August, but truly celebrated every day of the month, as the country's expansive steppe lands yield some of the tastiest crop known to mankind.
Turkmenistan has traditionally been renowned for its melons.
On this photo, melons are sold in one of the country's markets.
Image by Grigoriy Karamyanc, used with permission.
'Sweetest' holiday
The melon's official holiday was initiated by Sapamurat Niyazov, the fruity First President of Turkmenistan in 1994.
Each year, the head of state makes a congratulatory speech and demands a celebration of the Turkmen melon.
The belief that Turkmenistan's melons and watermelons are the best in the world goes unchallenged in the country.
President Gurbanguly Berdymuhammedov made an address to the nation this Melon Day reminding them that "since ancient times Turkmenistan has been considered the homeland of the best melons in the world."
As noted before on Global Voices, few people ever bother to contradict him.
Turkmen Melon Day celebration in 2011.
Image by the Turkmenistan International Magazine.
Traditionally, Turkmen government bestows awards upon melon growers and celebrates the harvest with concerts and dancing, as can be seen in this video.
It seems that the Turkmen treated this holiday as seriously this year as in years past.
I have now regained all the followers I lost with my "Turkmen Melon Day" gaffe a few days back.
Bringing the Venezuelan Literature Boom to English Speakers · Global Voices
This post is the first part of a two-part series of our conversation with Venepoetics author Guillermo Parra on Venezuelan literature (online and offline) and his translation of the poet Jose Antonio Ramos Sucre.
Venezuelan literature, and especially the works of Jose Antonio Ramos Sucre, have a new place online and in the English language thanks to Guillermo Parra and his blog Venepoetics.
Guillermo is a Venezuelan-American blogger living in the United States (US) who has been writing about Venezuelan literature online for over ten years.
He discovered Venezuelan poetry through Juan Sánchez Peláez in 1997, while he was working as a librarian in Providence, Rhode Island.
Since then, Guillermo has become a devoted follower of the literary movement in Venezuela and its outreach outside the country - or lack thereof.
Guillermo Parra.
Image used with permission.
This issue is reflected in one of his posts about Alberto Barrera Tiszka's 'The Sickness.'
Here Guillermo comments about the absence of Venezuelan literature in other languages:
Why has Venezuelan literature remained so completely untranslated and unknown in the United States and England?
When compared to other Latin American countries, such as Mexico, Colombia, Peru, Argentina, or Chile, the number of Venezuelan writers translated into English has always been minimal.
This hasn’t been for a lack of innovative, important writers.
But Venezuela’s invisibility in the global literary landscape is an issue we don’t have time to address here.
Regardless of that dilemma, Venezuelan literature has been experiencing a boom for the past decade, with an avalanche of publications, awards, workshops, presentations and a growing readership in Venezuela, Latin America and Spain.
The Venezuelan boom is particularly evident in the field of fiction, where several generations of writers are currently producing work that is worthy of attention well beyond the country’s (or Latin America’s) borders.
This spring gave us the publication in English of a short novel that’s emblematic of the Venezuelan literary boom at the beginning of the 21st century.
We had an enriching conversation with Guillermo via email in which he told us about his experience with Venepoetics and how it lead to the publication of his book.
He also told us about how social media has connected him with other people devoted to Venezuelan literature and its expansion outside the country.
Furthermore, Guillermo shared other places on the Internet where netizens talk about Venezuelan literature, and also his impressions about a literature, which he believes, is experiencing a new flourishing.
Regarding Venezuelan literature of today, I share the opinion of those who think we're in a very good moment for literature.
I do believe there's a sort of boom in Venezuelan literature these days, with a big variety of great writers, coming from a lot of different generations, publishing very good pieces.
Through blogs, Twitter and Facebook, as well as online Venezuelan newspapers and journals, I've been able to have access to all kinds of information about what is now being done and published.
One of the best sources of information about Venezuelan literature today is Héctor Torres and Lennis Rojas' Twitter account Ficción Breve Venezolana .
Another essential source for me is Roger Michelena's Twitter feed.
Guillermo also told us about his book, a translation of selected poems by Jose Antonio Ramos Sucre, and how it was born out of his work on the blog Venepoetics:
The book is the product of my work with Venepoetics.
Since 2003, Venezuelan readers approached me through the blog, and encouraged me in my work of translating Venezuelan poetry.
A lot of the texts I translated for this book were published first on the blog, in versions that were a bit different.
I used my blog as a public workshop for this translation project, thinking that the material should be published as a book in the future I have been lucky to meet a lot of Venezuelan writers through my blog, which has made me feel somehow connected with what's been happening in Venezuelan literature.
He continues:
My contact with bloggers (and then Twitter users) started with two people: Iria Puyosa and Héctor Torres .
I met them by email first, following their blogs and then in person while I was visiting Caracas in 2007.
I think they represent the spirit of generosity and engagement with blogs Unfortunately, Venezuelan literature is quite invisible in the US. Few people know about it, and that makes me feel sometimes that my blog is not read by too many people, even if I've been writing on it for over ten years...
Join us in the next part of this interview where we will share some of Guillermo's translations.
We will also discuss more thoughts on the works and the authors behind Venezuela's narratives of today and their role in the country's literature boom.
Spain: Greeting Real Madrid With Catalan Separatist Flags · Global Voices
Image from the official Facebook event: "The classic of freedom.
The world is listening."
On October 7, 2012 the rival Spanish soccer teams Real Madrid and FC Barcelona will meet at Camp Nou (the latter's stadium) for the latest match in a rivalry famously known as "el clásico".
With six days left before the game, the Catalan activist group Veus per la Independència or "Voices for Independence" is encouraging fans to bring their estelades (Catalan separatist flags) in order to fill their team's stadium with nationalist symbols.
On the Facebook event, titled "Clàssic de la llibertat" or "Classic of freedom", Veus per la Independència has asked:
Brazil: The Cry of Resistance of the Guarani Kaiowá · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Indigenous Rights.
Under yet another threat of eviction from their lands, the indigenous community Guarani-Kaiowá from Pyelito Key/Mbarakay, in the town of Iguatemi, State of Mato Grosso do Sul (MS) released a letter on 8 October 2012, that has rippled across the press and the web, as a cry of resistance when death seems to be the destiny of a whole people:
To whom are we going to denounce the violence perpetrated against our lives?
To what Brazilian Justice system?
If the very Federal Justice system is creating and feeding violent acts against us. (...)
In fact, we know very well that at the center of this old territory of ours are buried many of our grandfathers and grandmothers, great grandfathers and great grandmothers, there are the cemeteries of all of our ancestors.
Conscious of this fact, we are now going to and want to be killed and buried along with our ancestors right here where we are today, therefore, we ask of the Government and Federal Justice system not to make an order for our eviction/expulsion, but instead we request that they decree our mass death and to bury all of us here.
Profoundly affected by the near total loss of their lands during the course of the last century, the Guaraní Kaiowá, the second largest indigenous group of Brazil, with a population of 43,000, are the constant target of attacks and victim to an alarming wave of suicides.
The lands of the State of Mato Grosso do Sul are the most productive in Brazil in terms of cattle and biofuels.
Photo of 5,000 crosses planted in Brasilia on the Facebook page of Itiban Comic Shop
The letter was provoked by the publishing of a dispatch by Federal Justice of Navirai, State of Mato Grosso do Sul (case number 0000032-87.2012.4.03.6006) determining the removal of the community Pyelito Kue/Mbarakay from its ancestral lands.
"Those who should die"
"We should not remain silent or unmoved in the face of this clamor by the Kaiowá Guarani community", maintains Egon Heck, adviser to the Indigenist Missionary Council (Cimi), alluding to the historical memory documented "Y-Juca-Pirama – The Indian He Who Should Die", a booklet published in 1973 by by bishops and missionaries working in the Amazon:
In face of the decree of death and extermination arises the obstinate determination of the peoples to live or die collectively, according to their beliefs, hopes or despair.
This cry certainly will be part of the manifesto "the indigenous peoples, those who should live", in spite of and against the decrees of extermination. (...)
It is not an isolated occurrence, but of exceptional gravity, in face of a decision of collective death.
We will continue to be challenged by similar occurrences, if some urgent measures are not taken to solve the question of demarcation of the indigenous lands of this people.
Illustration by Odyr Bernardi published on the Facebook page "Quadrinhos Guarani" in response to the appeal to collective action for a comics version of the letter by the indigenous community.
Journalist Eliane Brum, reacting to the letter, wrote on her page in the magazine Época about the history of the struggle of the Guarani Kaiowá and of how "a group of the elite discards, in the name of ignorance, the immense richness contained in the languages, knowledge and world visions of the 230 indigenous ethnicities that still survive" in Brazil:
How can we comprehend the despair of a decision of dying together?
We cannot.
We do not even know what this is.
But we can meet those who died, who die and who will die by our actions - or inactions.
And this way, at least we can bring our worlds closer, that until today have in violence their main meeting point.
On Twitter (@felipedjeguaka), Felipe denounces the connections between local government officials and plantation owners, gunslingers, and organized crime in the Amazon", naming names such as:
The mayor of Paranhos took Elpídio Pires to jail.
And the mayor of Aral Moreira is one of the accused in the death of Nisio Gomes Guarani.
Mayors!
Wave of protests
Denunciation of death threats by an indigenous representative of the women of MS in the video "Salutations Dilma!
Those who are about to die salute you."
On Facebook a group organized to perform a "symbolic collective suicide" online, based on a collective disactivation of Facebook accounts on November 2, in an event given the name "facebookicide” .
An Avaaz petition, already with 24,290 signatures , appeals: "Let's stop the collective suicide of the Guarani Kaiowá indians".
A note by CIMI meanwhile criticizes the irresponsible form that the issue has been brought to light interpreted as a "supposed suicide" of the Guarani Kaiowá, echoed by citizen mobilizations and by the press, when in fact the letter speaks of a "collective death" in the "context of a struggle for land".
Another Avaaz petition, already with over 172,000 signatures , reinforces the message conveyed in the letter and launches appeal:
Join us in demanding media coverage of the case and urgent action from President DILMA and governor ANDRÉ PUCCINELLI, for preventing such killings and along with them the extinction of this people.
On October 19 in Brasilia a public protest convened by CIMI, the Federal Council of Psychology (CFP), the Dhesca Platform and Global Justice, occurred in front of the National Congress.
Egon Hack wrote about the mobilization and concludes :
Meanwhile, the communities on reclaimed lands, in camps, in villages, organize hope, taking on the powerful and they struggle with the strength that they have left against the policies of death and genocide.
This article was written in collaboration with Diego Casaes, Elisa Thiago, João Miguel Lima, Luís Henrique, Paula Góes and Raphael Tsavkko.
The Stateless People of Egypt · Global Voices
Stateless people are those who do not have a nationality.
According to the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR), there are up to 12 million stateless people in the world.
Sometimes the concept of being stateless is confused with refugees.
However, many stateless people are not refugees as they have never crossed any international border.
While the Universal Declaration of Human Rights affirms that everyone has the right to a nationality and prohibits the arbitrary deprivation of nationality, stateless people exist due to different reasons; gender, ethnic and religious discrimination are among main factors.
Stateless people usually suffer from multiple forms of human rights violations and lack of access to basic rights such as education, employment, healthcare, and political participation.
Statelessness is not uncommon in the Arab world.
Palestinians are a prime example as their nationality is not recognized by other countries.
Also, those who live in Jerusalem but didn’t apply for Israeli citizenship are without nationality.
Bidoon (without nationality) people of Kuwait and other Gulf countries, Sahrawi refugees in Algeria, and the black minority in Mauritania are other examples of stateless people in Arab countries.
National laws that prevent mothers from transferring nationality to their children if the father is not a national is also one of the main reasons for statelessness in different countries, such as Iraq and Oman.
While the issue of statelessness doesn’t get much visibility, some activists have been raising their voices and using social media to highlight it.
In Kuwait, online advocacy is an important tool for shedding light on the plight of Bidoon people.
Global Voices author Mona Kareem has started Bidoon Rights Blog to document the situation of this community in Kuwait.
Elshamy tweeted:
@abdallahelshamy: Notes on statelessness in Egypt: Today I was visiting Azazma tribe in East Sinai near borders with Palestine; 150 km far from Arish.
He added:
@abdallahelshamy: This tribe has been living for decades without Egyptian nationality.
They only have one health unit with no staff and it is totally covered with dust.
He continued:
@abdallahelshamy:The tribe leader told me: We heard that President Morsi is a just man and we demand that he solves our problem so that our sons could travel and work.
Azazma tribe is a nomadic society that is spread out between Negev and Sinai deserts on both sides of the Egyptian and Israeli borders.
The tribe members in Sinai number between 3,000 to 5,000 people.
After the Israeli occupation of Sinai ended, Azazma tribe members on the Egyptian side expected to obtain the Egyptian nationality, but were only left with "passage documents" with unidentified nationalities.
In a blog post from 2008 entitled Azazma, people of the border or border for the people?, blogger and poet Ashraf AlAnany ponders difficult questions regarding the history of Azazma, their complex relationship with Israel and the perceived lack of loyalty to Egypt which propagates their statelessness.
AlAnany wrote:
I believe we have one of two options; the first is to continue their situation at the border and continuously remain as a tension point.
They're without nationality so how do we demand them to be integrated in this country and treat it as its citizens with all the rights and duties.
The second option, which I believe would be opposed by many, is that they become Egyptian nationals.
The opponents would say that the Azazam of 1953 were forcefully displaced by occupation forces.
Others may take the argument to another level and say "How do we give nationality to a tribe that works with Israelis as guides in the Border Guard Division and as soldiers or officers in the Bedouin Troops, how do we ensure their loyalty?"
Elshamy shared photos from his visit to the tribe:
A photo of one of the tribe’s sheikhs showing his passage document; the only official paper he has.
Photograph shared by @abdullahelshamy on Twitter
A photo of children of the tribe, by @abdullahelshamy
The Azazma tribe, however, are not the only stateless people in Egypt.
Since Palestinians who fled to Egypt and other Arab countries were not granted citizenship and lost their original citizenship, many of them are now stateless.
Other than that, small numbers of people of Armenian origin are stateless in Egypt.
Children of mixed Ethiopian-Eritrean origins can also be stateless and some of them seek asylum in Egypt.
Until recently, people of the Bahai’ faith were not able to obtain official documents such as birth certificates or national IDs as their faith was not recognized by the state.
In 2008, the Administrative Court ruled that Bahai’s could be issued documents without mentioning their religion, deemed as a historic step towards integrating them.
The UNHCR has started a campaign last year to combat statelessness, encouraging countries to sign agreements related to reducing statelessness.
Except for Tunisia, Libya and Algeria, Arab countries did not sign these conventions.
The Authors Behind the Venezuelan Literary Boom · Global Voices
This post is the last of a two part series on our conversation with Venepoetics' author Guillermo Parra about Venezuelan literature (online and offline) and his translations of Jose Antonio Ramos Sucre.
You can read the first post here.
In the first part of this interview, Guillermo Parra told us about his experiences with Venezuelan poetry, his contact with new movements thanks to social media, and his take on what could be considered a new boom in the literature of the country.
In this part of the interview we will share Guillermo's take on the new authors who are painting the landscape of new Venezuelan narratives.
Regarding the writers, I think it's fascinating to see different generations publishing a lot of very interesting things.
The times I've been in Caracas, between 2007 and 2010, I've been surprised by the amount of presentations, readings and other literary events.
Being able to meet poet Rafael Cadenas while checking books in bookshops impacted me until I grew used to his presence in Caracas' literary events.
The first times I saw him in public was intimidating, since his work has been so important to me.
We also asked Guillermo to give us some hints about some of the main characters of this "boom".
He told us:
Image via Shutterstock, copyright Falconia.
I don't see much difference between these writers' stories and the ones that have influenced me in the US.
Their literary proposals reflect a wide set of influences, from the Spanish Enrique Vila-Matas to the Venezuelan Teresa de la Parra, as well as the North-American David Foster Wallace...
Finally, he adds:
I think readers inside and outside the country should know these fiction writers. They give us a taste of the different ways that Venezuelan literature could go in the years ahead.
They're passionate about literature, but above all, they write stories that reveal the magic and the poetry that sometimes come up in our daily lives.
You can find more about Venezuelan literature, and also some of Guillermo's translation of Ramos Sucre, in his blog Venepoetics.
Anniversary Interview with Occupy Wall Street Movement Activist · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage #Occupy Worldwide.
David DeGraw, one of the early participants of the 99% movement has explained about the birth and development of the Occupy Wall Street protest in a one year anniversary video (the first interview he has given in six months).
Interviewed by Cenk Uygur for the TV program 'The Young Turks', he touches on the emergence of the movement, the organization's pitfalls, how hard it was to unify such a diverse group people, the expectations to have him become a spokesperson of a leaderless organization, and also the triumphs of the movement.
As quoted by AmpedStatus.org, the 99% media outlet was what opened a new generation's eyes to see that they could make a change:
This is about empowering a new generation to be leaders, to be engaged.
We have millions of people engaged in creating change that were not engaged and creating change a year ago.
Occupy globally is the big bang of humanity’s next phase of evolution.
It created this wild new ecosystem of mass transformation.
Millions of people turned on, let out of the propaganda cage.
The first step is that you have to open the prison door so people can come flying out and realize that we can change things.
You say another world is possible.
Now, another world is happening.
For the future, there is the need to get money to fund the movement, but DeGraw is quite closed about what the next big step will be.
On his tumblr blog, he speaks about the evolution of the movement and where it should be going in the future:
It’s time to flip the protest script »
Instead of protesting what we are against, let’s rally around what we are for.
We need to occupy & amplify the solutions.
Let’s occupy the forces that are evolving our society to a sustainable and prosperous future, for the 100%.
Let’s hold rallies around successful alternative monetary systems, alternative energy, alternative education, alternative media, alternative food, alternative healthcare, alternative systems of governance.
Spain: The Minister of Education's Many Gaffes · Global Voices
The Spanish Minister of Education, Culture, and Sport, José Ignacio Wert, has sparked controversy after controversy since starting the position less than a year ago.
It isn't an accident that he is the minister with the worst approval rating in the entire government.
In a parliamentary session several weeks ago, with the delicate situation of Catalonia, where nationalist parties have revived the debate over independence, hanging over head, Wert let loose the following to representative Francesc Vallès:
‏@helenanito: Españolizar a los Beatles cantando "All I need is work"
‏@helenanito: To Spanish-ize The Beatles singing "All I need is work"
The Spanish Minister of Education, José Ignacio Wert.
Photo from the blog Cinereverso.org
In a country troubled more and more by austerity measures affecting all parts of society, education is a sore subject.
In budget estimations for the 2012/2013 term, education suffered a cutback of almost 22%, meanwhile higher Value Added Tax (VAT) rates that went into effect in September have spiked the tax on school materials 17 points, going from the superreduced rate of 4% to the general rate of 21%.
Even though textbooks continue to be taxed at 4%, the budget for grants to help with the purchase of books has been reduced by 70%, which means that many families have been forced to cover the cost.
And that's not the only thing being slashed from the budget - money allocated for meal programs, school transportation and scholarships has also been reduced.
The minister has stated that the number of students per class has not increased, but that the limit has been "eased by 20%".
And he considers the change to be a good thing for children:
India: New Challenges to Fight Tuberculosis Worldwide · Global Voices
This page is part of our special coverage Global Development.
The Indian media and blogosphere have been locked in fierce battle over two words: “extensively,” and “totally.”
If you’ve been following Indian news at all, you know that it is about the global health community’s tuberculosis debate.
India’s media sphere exploded last week with reports from Mumbai of a tuberculosis strain completely resistant to all known treatment.
The Indian newspapers coined it “totally drug-resistant tuberculosis” or TDR-TB.
But just a few days later the Government of India released a statement refuting the term TDR-TB, saying that the World Health Organization has no clear definition for TDR-TB, and that the TB emerging in Mumbai, India is merely another strain of extremely drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB). They’re now calling it XXDR-TB, or “extensively drug-resistant TB.”
Electron microscope image of mycobacterium tuberculosis, responsible for tuberculosis.
Image by Flickr user Sanofi Pasteur (CC BY-NC-ND).
The blogosphere and headlines erupted with experts and Indian citizens wondering why the Government of India and the big players in TB treatment were arguing over what to call it, rather than what to do about it.
Bharati Ghanashyam, a blogger for Journalists Against TB, summed up the outrage that erupted in the global health blogosphere following the Indian Ministry of Health's statement, “Call it any name but banish it.”
Ghanashyam commented that the TDR-TB fiasco arose on the heels of the news that India had been declared polio-free for an entire year.
His question: how could India achieve such a milestone but drop the ball so badly with TB?
He then noted that there was “considerable debate, denial and discussion on whether this new form can be termed TDR-TB."
As per a report in the Indian Express, “The doctors from Hinduja have unnecessarily raised a panic alarm.
The term TDR is not recognized by the WHO or the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme (RNTCP).
As of now, they are only slotted as XDR-TB cases,” said an official from the Directorate of Health Services.”
Brazil: Speaking Out About Hydroelectric Plants and the Amazon · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Dossiê Belo Monte (Belo Monte Dossier) and Indigenous Rights.
Aiming at generating electrical energy for residential and industrial consumption, the Brazilian government is constructing a series of hydroelectric powerplants in the Pantanal and Amazon areas, such as the Tapajós river power plant and the Teles Pires river power plant, among others.
According to the consortium Norte Energia, responsible for the construction of the controversial Belo Monte plant, energy consumption has been growing in the country and the power plant "is the guarantee that this demand can be met", reinforcing the argument of development in the country.
Like the Belo Monte project, the São Luiz do Tapajós plant project (in the Tapajós river) and the Teles Pires plant project (in the Teles Pires river, which flows into the Tapajós river) have been challenged in court for failing to have adequately consulted local people and for misguided integrated environmental assessments. They have also been accused of carrying out deforestation and agricultural advancement.
Here you have the second part of our interview series with Sany Kalapalo , a young indigenous activist from Xingu.
Global Voices (GV): Considering the current challenges, how do you see the future of forests and the indigenous people that inhabit the Amazon area?
Sany Kalapalo (SK): As we indigenous people from Xingu always say: "The White Man thinks he owns nature and can do whatever he wants to it, but there'll be a time when Mother Nature won't take it anymore and will retaliate."
The only interest these mega-corrupt people have in constructing huge power plants such as Belo Monte is to generate profit for electricity companies, so the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.
If the government was really interested and worried about the country's development, it would implant energy networks where they are missing; networks that would benefit those regions that are experiencing blackouts.
We, the indigenous population, aren't against the energy itself, we are against the project and the way that these hydroelectrics are being developed, damaging the environment and local people.
Especially the Belo Monster (Belo Monte) that will affect multiple poor families and indigenous people.
Why construct a power plant that will only generate electricity two seasons of the year?
For the other two seasons the Xingu river is usually dry.
And what about the power plant?
What about the electricity for them and the company?
Think about it.
Brazil has the capacity to generate clean and fair energy for the Brazilian people.
Do you know what the future is for local people?
Flooding, loss of homes, loss of crops, loss of identity... loss of everything, and misery for sure.
That is what the government wants- that is the cold, hard .
That's why I don't call it Developmental Belo Monte.
I call it Sub-destruction or Total Destruction, both for indigenous people and non-indigenous people alike, not to mention the environment.
Jose Carlos Arara, the chief of the Arara tribe, discusses the negative impact of Belo Monte on the people who depend on the Xingu River for their livelihoods.
Photo by K. L. Hoffmann copyright Demotix (August 13, 2011)
GV: National and international NGOs have been criticized as being "enemies of Brazil".
Members of the Xingu Vivo para Sempre Movement suffered from the same accusations.
Which organizations do you think are doing a good job in the region?
SK: I know the creators and activists of the Xingu Vivo para Sempre Movement, who are also currently our main partners.
I've been hearing a lot stuff about Xingu Vivo.
Actually, the governors want to delude and try to persuade Brazilian people by saying that are enemies of Brazil, and in this way make them see them differently, as invaders, and not taking their claims into account; that is that they want to protect nature at the request of the indigenous population, since our voices are not heard in our own country.
This is what the government is doing, when they are the real "big bad wolves"; they always want to close people's eyes so that they don't see the mess that they have made in the country.
Another movement, that has been active since early 2011 and woke Brazil up to fight again in support of the Xingu Vivo para Sempre movement, is the Indígenas em Ação Movement.
GV: Since 2011, the mobilization and court decisions have been successful in stopping the Belo Monte plant, but soon another court decision could authorize the resumption of work.
Is it time to accept the plant construction as a fact or is it still worth fighting against it?
SK: I'm glad that since 2011 the mobilization against Belo Monte has increased a lot.
I believe this is because of the huge protests we organized and carried out here in São Paulo for the Indígenas em Ação Movement with the support of the Xingu Vivo para Sempre movement, and indeed all over Brazil with the support of the Brasil pelas Florestas Movement, which fights for the improvement of the new Forest Code.
We indigenous people are determined to fight, as we have done all this time.
If the constructors want indigenous blood, they will have it.
If this is what the white judge wants, to fight against us, the massacre that has lasted 512 years will continue, you know why?
The indigenous people of Xingu don't accept being murderers of nature as these governors do.
On October 20, 2012, at 2 PM, a protest is planned against the Belo Monte hydroelectric power plant in front of the United Nations office in São Paulo.
The goal is to ask for support from the UN for the problems related to the Xingu river.
Siege of Portuguese Parliament: "This is not our budget" · Global Voices
This post is part of our coverage Europe in Crisis
A siege of Portuguese parliament took place on October 15, 2012, the day when Portuguese government officially submitted the state budget for 2013 to the President of the Parliament.
The draft proposal, which is expected to be put to the vote on October 31, unveils growing austerity and cuts on public services such as healthcare (-17%) and education (-14.5%), inevitably leading to more unemployment and impoverishment of the population.
On Twitter, Facebook and blogs many were surprised by the lack of coverage on TV and criticized biased and sensationalist news about the demonstration in front of São Bento Palace (home of the Assembly of the Republic).
Meanwhile, citizens made the news with their own media, livestreaming the events and tweeting under the hashtag #OE13 (from "Orçamento de Estado 2013″, 2013's State Budget).
A video by Ministério da Verdade (Ministry of Truth) on Youtube summarizes the siege, which started at 6 p.m.:
"Several thousand people gather in front of the Portuguese parliament to demand the resignation of the government following the announcement of a new budget."
Photo by Xavier Malafosse copyright Demotix (15/10/2012)
João Paulo Pedrosa, on Praça Stephens blog, writes his impressions of the "young peaceful people" he found when he got in front of the Parliament:
They are, however, the scraping-by youth, scraping-by with the difficulties of the moment, unemployment, precariousness, insecurity of the present and, above all, fear of the future and it is for them that we all have to help find answers.
There is, however, well expressed in the small stall of food and drink that was installed there, a certain social utopia of egalitarianism which, unfortunately, is not part of our cruel and unforgiving time.
We therefore live in a terrible time, too bad it is ours.
More than happiness, today, the magic word is hope.
"A man wears a mock 'Pinocchio' nose as thousands gathered outside the Portuguese parliament to demonstrate against renewed austerity measures introduced by the Portuguese government."
Photo by Violeta Moura copyright Demotix (15/10/2012)
"Don't fuck my job".
In another video by André Matos Cardoso on Vimeo, one can hear protesters chanting slogans such as "the people united will never be defeated":
"Naked demonstrators protest among a couple of thousand who gathered outside the Portuguese parliament to protest renewed austerity measures introduced by the Portuguese government. "
"Riot police monitor protests as a fire burns in front of the parliament building as demonstrations take place over government imposed austerity measures designed to ease Portugal's economic and financial crisis".
Photo by João Caetano copyright Demotix (15/10/2012)
Philosopher and researcher Porfírio Silva, on his blog Machina Speculatrix, explains why he is against the idea of a siege of parliament:
If you want to be really imaginative, make an alternative parliament for an alternative budget.
Take the government's proposal (if any), discuss specific amendments and approve them, make us know the outcome to fuel debate among citizens.
I promise that I will not even analyze the "representative" credentials of such "alternative parliament": I will only examine the "popular" budget that results from this, on its own merits.
Feedback keeps pouring in on the wall of the Facebook event created for October 15 (with almost 4.500 participants), and a new event has been created for October 23, calling for an "Assembly of the Siege" to plan for upcoming actions.
Venezuela: Chávez Era to Extend for Six More Years · Global Voices
This post was written in collaboration with Jessica Carrillo .
After the most contested and intense elections of the last decade, Venezuela will add six more years to the administration that began in 1999 with Hugo Chávez Frías.
The traffic on social networks, particularly on Twitter, was extremely intense, especially moments before the official announcement of the results.
From the side that supports the President, tweets express joy and satisfaction, while those who support Henrique Capriles share mixed feelings of disappointment with deep convictions that changes are possible in the future.
In a detailed reading, the image of a country cut in two is even sharper than before.
The separations between different strata of society remain part of the general disocurse.
Hugo Chávez supporters during campaign rally on June 11, 2012, in Caracas.
Adriana (@SombreroRojo) says:
On the side of the opposition there is gratitude for Henrique Capriles and his campaign, criticism towards the President's opportunism, and allegations of serious irregularities that go back to the days of the campaign. Similarly, many also call fellow Capriles supporters to reflect on the results, to continue the fight, and to take into account that while victory was not achieved in this election, the leaders of the opposition now have an organized group that will allow for cohesive and more efficient work in the years to come.
@Fedosy : Capriles will continue serving, I will continue writing.
My country is my country.
I am no less Venezuelan, and no less a writer.
@haticos : I will recognize the victory of Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías but I will never applaud the opportunistic, abusive, and manipulative way in which it was imposed.
@upallove : Cristina won in Argentina.
Peña Nieto won in Mexico.
Chávez won in Venezuela.
Ignorance won in Latin America.
Andrea (@DynamiteAndre) points out, like many others, her concern over the use of guns during the celebration: @DynamiteAndre: "LONG LIVE CHÁVEZ!" followed by the sound of shots in a row.
Bolivia, Do You Have Internet? · Global Voices
Bolivia’s National Census of Population and Housing 2012 will be held on November 21.
The previous national census took place more than a decade ago, in December 2001.
Led by the National Institute of Statistics (INE in Spanish), the national 2012 census aims to provide “updated information on demographic, social, economic and housing conditions in the country, allowing to adjust, define and evaluate plans, programmes, public policies and strategies for sustainable human, economic and social development at the national, departmental and municipal levels”.
Targeting primarily demographic and housing issues, the census questionnaire has sparked a debate on social media platforms regarding question 17: “Does this household have Internet service?”
Researchers, analysts, and activists expected more inquiry and information coming out of the 2012 census.
Nevertheless, the sole question regarding Internet access inquires only about the service, disregarding type of connection, quality, uses, digital divide, and so on, missing an opportunity to collect in-depth information on this matter.
Nayeli and Carla by Safe the Children (CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)
It is estimated that about 30% of the population and 9% of households have Internet access in Bolivia.
The number is not high; however, the quality shows even a worse scenario: only 0.7 of every 100 have broadband connections.
Mario Durán, a blogger and activist based in El Alto, argues on his blog that question 17 should be answered “no” if the access to the Internet is via mobile broadband stick or mobile phone.
After sharing his position on social media platforms, a number of replies came in favor and against his argument.
Eliana Quiroz, a well-known digital activist, commented on an open discussion at the campaigning Facebook page “Más ancho de banda para Bolivia” (More Broadband for Bolivia):
Spain: Catalan Unionist Party Launches Controversial Viral Video · Global Voices
On November 25, 2012 Catalan voters will go to the polls for a round of early elections.
After September 11th's separatist rally in Barcelona, in which more than a million individuals took to the streets to demand Catalonia's secession from Spain, these elections are shaping up to be a plebiscite for establishing an independent Catalan state (hopefully) within the European Union.
The contentious electoral climate continues to provoke an intense online debate, driven in part by internet campaigns designed to stir the polemic.
In the video, a fragment of the essay is read aloud as images of historically important Andalusians, such as the philosopher Seneca, the poets Federico García Lorca and Antonio Machado, and the painter Pablo Picasso, pan across the screen .
The fragment of the text reads:
Hay Festival Dhaka Is Back Again! · Global Voices
In Bangladesh the practice of English literature is becoming popular.
Rather than only writing in Bangla, many writers are deciding to write in English.
It is a new trend in Bangladesh.
The English writers in Dhaka will be meeting again at the second edition of Hay Festival.
The festival will be held on 15-17 November 2012 in the historic grounds of the Bangla Academy, Dhaka.
It is hoped that through this event the new generation of Bangladeshi writers in English will be promoted to the global literary community.
The poster of Hay Festival Dhaka.Sadaf Saaz Siddiqi, co-producer of Hay Festival Dhaka and a poet, said about the event:
As an annual event, which we hope to build on, Hay Festival Dhaka is an excellent vehicle for our emerging community of English writers to be plugged into the global literary scene.
We want to take our Bengali literature beyond our borders, as only a fraction of the huge repertoire of our Bengali writing has been translated or promoted abroad (whereas in comparison for example, South American writers are household names globally).
We hope Hay festival will encourage publishers to take on translation projects.
Tahmima Anam, author of 'A Golden Age', and 'The Good Muslim', said:
The Hay Festival presents a wonderful opportunity to create dialogue between leading British and Bangladeshi authors; I hope this event will herald a new wave of Bangladeshi writing as we bring some of the magic of Hay to Dhaka.
Here are some pictures from the 1st Hay Festival Dhaka held last year.
Images of Hay Festival Dhaka 2011. Pictures courtesy the Facebook page of Hay Festival Dhaka. Images of Hay Festival Dhaka 2011.
Pictures courtesy the Facebook page of Hay Festival Dhaka.
This year’s festival will be a three-day literary feast of bilingual panel discussions and other events featuring internationally acclaimed authors like Vikram Seth, Syed Shamsul Haq, Nandita Das, Philip Hensher, Kamila Shamsie, Basharat Peer, Zafar Iqbal, Mohammed Hanif, Gillian Clarke, Kaiser Haq, Sharbari Ahmed, Farah Ghuznavi, Shaheen Akhtar, Selina Hussein, Shehan Karunatilaka, Mahmud Rahman, Anis Ahmed, Anisul Hoque, Audity Falguni, Tahmima Anam and others.
Hay festival for literature and the Arts was started in a small town in Wales Hay-on Wye around a kitchen table in 1987, and it has now become one of the largest literary festivals of its kind in the world, set in spectacular Welsh countryside of the Brecon Beacons.
Famously called 'the Woodstock of the mind' by Bill Clinton, Hay has brought together writers from around the world for 25 years, to debate and share stories.
This year marks the 25th anniversary of Hay Festival and 10-day celebration on the occasion was held in June in Hay-on Wye in the UK.
Two Tunisian Graffiti Artists to Face Trial · Global Voices
On 3 November 2012, police caught graffiti artists, Oussama Bouagila and Chahine Berriche drawing graffiti in Gabes, in the South East of Tunisia.
Bouagila and Berriche are members of Zwewla , a street art community famous for its graffiti in support of the poor and marginalized groups in Tunisia.
Bouagila and Berriche face charges of "writing, without permission, on public property", "breaching the state of emergency" and "publishing fake news that could disturb public order".
The two young graffiti artists have remained free pending their trial, scheduled on December 5.
Another graffiti by Zwewla in Sousse, central East Tunisia: "The employed and the unemployed are against injustice and exploitation"
Oussama Bouajila told Nawaat.org that when police caught him and Berriche, they were inscribing a graffiti that says "the people want the poor's rights."
Slateafrique's Tawa fi Tunis blog quoted Bouajila saying:
We created this graffiti movement because no one speaks about us and the problems of unemployment, poverty and marginalization that we face.
So, we have decided to speak for ourselves.
Why graffiti?
Graffiti is more accessible for the Tunisian who does not have access to Facebook, for instance.
"They buried the poor alive", graffiti by Zwewla.
Photo by Hamideddine Bouali
On the other hand, Berriche complained about Tunisian legislation which he "says does not guarantee freedom of expression":
The problem here, is not the police which tried to arrest us or confiscate our equipment.
The real problem is that law is applied to certain persons but not others.
Besides, this law in itself does not guarantee freedom of expression, and still oppresses along with the old dictators' methods, activists.
Egyptians are Writing their own Secular Law .. on Twitter · Global Voices
Egyptians are drafting their very own secular law - on Twitter.
It all started when Mahmoud Salem - aka Sandmonkey - suggested the following:
@Sandmonkey: Because Islamists view secular people as being unIslamic, and see that non-Muslims are controlling their religious rituals, who wants to write with me a secular law?
On cue, the hashtag #شريعة_العلمانية (Secular Law) soon came up, and was populated with suggestions on what this new sharia (law) for secular people should be.
Salem leads the draft law, with a focus on women, saying:
@Sandmonkey: Trading in women is banned and those who want to get married to children should be jailed and taken for psychological treatment
Malak Boghdady adds:
@MalakBoghdady: Woman are not a piece of meat, walking on the street.
A woman is a human being, just like a man, and it is her right to feel safe and not be ashamed for being a woman.
And Shahinaz Abdel Salam notes:
@Wa7damasrya: My colour, type and religion are not important.
My work is.
@Wa7damasrya: Justice, equality and freedom.
Moving to politics, Mohamed Emam suggests:
@meman8: It is not allowed to form political parties on the basis of religion or ethnicity.
Using religious slogans in politics is fraudulent and does not constitute a political programme
On personal freedom, Nevine Zaki notes:
@nevine_zaki: You are free as long as you don't harm others
On religion, Zaki tweets:
@nevine_zaki: Religion is for God and the nation is for all.
And Emam adds:
@memam8: You have the right to embrace any religion you want and the right to practice your rituals without interference from others.
You also have to respect all the other religions
While Nahla Enany keeps it brief:
@Sandmonkey: Insulting figureheads when they act dumb is the duty of every secular
Spain: Catalans Continue to Push for Independence · Global Voices
This a follow-up to last week's article, Spain: Storming the Streets (and Web) on Catalonia's National Day.
It's been a big week in Catalan politics.
Last Tuesday, September 11, 2012, well over a million protesters took to the streets to demand Catalonia's secession from Spain, the largest pro-independence rally in the region's history.
(A striking aerial photo shows a sea of orange splashed across Barcelona's center, thanks to the abundance of red-and-yellow senyeres, the Catalan national flag.)
In response, Catalan President Artur Mas publicly endorsed the protest , challenging Spanish leaders to respond, a surprising move after a long career of ambiguity on Catalonia's political status.
Mas's declaration marks the first time since 1936 that a Catalan president has officially endorsed independence from Spain.
Responses from Spanish officials have ranged from lukewarm to outright denial.
Spanish Socialist leader Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba admitted that political concessions should be made regarding Catalonia's autonomy, while right-wing leaders argued that the massive protest indicated Spain's need for a stronger central government.
Spanish Primer Minister Mariano Rajoy has largely avoided the issue.
Meanwhile, pro-independence activists have continued to pressure politicians to match rhetoric with swift action.
Online, Catalan netizens have continued to surge the blogosphere to articulate their position.
Here follows a review of the past week.
"This is the cry of my people"
Col·lectiu Emma and Help Catalonia, two of the region's most widely circulated English-language blogs, have published substantially, preemptively countering any attempts by foreign media or Spanish politicians to downplay last Tuesday's rally.
Aside from documenting smaller protests by the Catalan diaspora in cities like London and New York City, both have posted essays responding to the centralist discourse among Spanish politicians.
Col·lectiu Emma released an article called "The Pursuit of Happiness," in which the author, Catalan economist Xavier Sala-i-Martin of Columbia University, used an unsettling metaphor to describe the centralist discourse emanating from Madrid: Possessive husbands tend to react predictably when their wives ask for a divorce: first they act surprised, then they deny the facts, quickly followed by refusing to sign the papers, and finally, they try to make her believe that the separation will leave her destitute and that without him, she is nothing.
France: Will Winter Come Early for Nice's Famous Flower Market? · Global Voices
On the occasion of the Sainte Fleur festival on 29 September, 2012, Nice-Matin, the local daily paper of the capital of the French Riviera, published an article titled "Nice: the famous flower market of the Cours Saleya in danger" .
According to Sophie Casals, the author of the article, the florists of the Cour Saleya (a popular town square in Nice) are having to deal with more and more administrative red tape - in addition to problems posed by the waste-management authorities.
The article provoked many comments on the web.
One reader, pinklotusinindia , has noted:
how sad it would be if this market (almost iconic - although expensive, particularly in the summer) disappeared, a must for tourists and for Nice locals who love to go for walks there, we have already cut it off from the nearby Square of the Chapel of Mercy, a great open space full of great pots...
We have to save the Cours Saleya and its small merchants, and revive the Nice soul!!
The Nice flower market by Chris230*** on FlickR (License CC-2.0)
Writing on the Blog du Vieux Nice (the Old Nice Blog), Adèle thinks that:
We have to keep the piece of paradise that the flower market represents!
It represents the emblem of our beautiful city everywhere in the world!
You can find there magnificent bouquets at affordable prices!
Many tourists will often return home with a "Niçois" bouquet.
Here's a brief history of the Cours Saleya according to nicetourisme.com:
Once a park, the Cours Saleya, now a pedestrian mall at the heart of the Nice Old Town, had become a picturesque, unmissable spot both for Nice locals and for tourists.
With its ochre setting, straight and baroque, the antique markets on Mondays and the flower and vegetable markets on the other days offer a ravishing treat for the eyes and delight for the taste-buds (they have been classed within the the 100 most picturesque markets in France).
On summer evenings, tourists also enjoy the pleasant art and artisan markets.
Here is a sample, taken from tripadvisor.co.uk, of what the tourists themselves think.
David_PRG85, from Prague in the Czech Republic, wrote:
We've visited Cours Saleya around 8-9am, to avoid crowds and it was great.
Still had the atmosphere of local city market with all the fresh fish, sausages, cheese, mushrooms, flowers, etc.
You can have still warm croissant, quiche, or pain au chocolat for breakfast for a very reasonable price and eat it just across the road on the beach.
The Cours Saleya by Dalbera on FlickR (license CC-2.0)
On the same site, Yung T from Austin, Texas, wrote:
Great place for people watching. This is a must do attraction in Nice.
If you want to learn the local culture, and see what local folks are doing, this is the perfect place.
It's the local market and it has everything from garden products to seafood, flowers, etc.
Recommend mid morning for smaller crowd.
Faldi wrote:
I hardly remember such a big place like this, with so many restaurants and bars all crammed at night with so many nice people, all in the same spot.
A beautiful view, reat to stroll just a bit too hot :-).
The Riviera online community suspect that the administrative red tape binding the florists works to the advantage of the restaurants with whom they share the town square - and this is provoking anger.
Many netizens have posted their reactions on nicematin.com.
Here are some examples:
chfjdli , appealing to the local municipal authorities, wrote :
It is unthinkable that the Cours Saleya flower market should disappear.
An unmissable Nice showcase for tourists (second only the Promenade des Anglais), this market warrants all of our concern and the authorities must immediately address the issue of co-existence with the restaurants which munch up more territory with each day as I, a customer of this very pleasant market, am noticing.
If the florists leave the square it will also be the end for many restaurants - the tourists will pass over to other areas as this attraction will no longer be there to incite them to come over.
In addition, waste-disposal employees should be instructed to be a bit more discerning in their work there.
We would be grateful if our Mayor took a moment to address this very important problem and to find a compromise.
Aristide , appreciating the tiresome work being done by the florists, said :
Let's talk about the florists of the Cours Saleya: they are working in conditions that few would envy and yet they are part of the Nice heritage. ...
We ought to help them rather than criticize and regulate them, but we are being led by people who spend more time in Paris and elsewhere than they do in the city that they are supposed to be managing.
Bastian expresses his sentiments on the matter with a sense of humour :
More room for restaurants...In any case there there are no longer any local producers, they all sold their farmland and turned it into building plots, so there won't be any soon enough… But who will keep these restaurants viable when the tourists go elsewhere... incidentally, we should think about alerting the tourist guides about the disappearance of this attraction which has historically been the glory of NICE.
On a practical note, ABDULLAH , a resident of the Nice Old Town, wrote :
Flowers are finished, romantics are progressively disappearing, people are thinking only about their stomachs (we need chow!); as a result, the currently preferred product is the kebab and its various accompaniments: chips and salad - inexpensive products within the reach of every budget.
We should save our warmest welcome for the coming vendors of this future product in Nice, because times are changing, and you've got to adopt to the new
When it comes to what makes Nice an internationally renowned city, apart from its climate and coast, credit must also go to the many tourist attractions - among them the Cours Saleya - which ought to be cherished and conserved.
Greece: Public TV Journalists Fired After Criticizing Minister · Global Voices
On October 29, 2012, two journalists, Kostas Arvanitis and Marilena Katsimi, were fired by the Greek Public Television (ERT) after analyzing claims by British newspaper The Guardian of police torture of Greek anti-fascist protesters in Athens, and criticizing the Greek Minister of Public Order.
Kostas Arvanitis himself explained the reason for their removal in his blog :
M. Katsimi: And here are the forensic findings for the 15 arrested people that The Guardian was writing about.
For this case Mr. Dendias wanted to sue The Guardian
Mr. Arvanitis: Didn’t he?
M. Katsimi: He didn’t, because the findings show that it is indeed a felony.
Mr. Arvanitis: Is he going to resign now?
M. Katsimi: I do not think so.
Mr. Arvanitis: And now what?
Will he say he is sorry?
M. Katsimi: I do not know ….
Mr. Arvanitis: Wow… that’s difficult for Mr. Dendias.
And he is from the same place as you, from Corfu.
M. Katsimi: And he is a serious man, I have to say.
Minutes later, he tweeted the news of their removal:
In a public statement , Aimilios Liatsos accused Mr. Arvanitis and Ms. Katsimi of infringing journalism's Code of Ethics and defended their dismissal: The General Directorate of ERT fully respects the rules of Free Press; it's proven in daily practice by presenting all views.
However, it can not tolerate the violation of the basic standards of journalistic ethics.
The presenters of the daily magazine “Morning Information” on NET, Mr. Kostas Arvanitis and Ms. Marilena Katsimi, made unacceptable insinuations against the Minister of Public Order, Nikos Dendias, without even giving him the right to express himself, while it seemed that they commented on the case, prejudging the outcome of the judicial decision.
Mr. Dendias had announced in parliament his intention to sue The Guardian newspaper, as user Dimitris Bounias tweeted: @DimitrisBounias: Greek media report #Dendias in parliament: "I will sue Guardian on behalf of the Greek state for defamation of our democracy".
And the masks fall...
Shame and disgrace to the "courtisan flatterers" of State Television.
Censorship will not pass.
Twitter users are expressing their disdain using the hashtag #Dendias, requesting, amongst other things, that Dendias should quit.
@blacktom1961: Instead of resigning, as he exposed himself like the last idiot on the planet, scoundrel and obviously cretin #Dendias silences criticisms
User Rogiros compared ERT's Director, Aimilios Liatsos, to Italian President Silvio Berlusconi:
Outrage as Facebook Post Leads to Arrests in India · Global Voices
The city of Mumbai's reaction to the death of Balasaheb Keshav Thackeray, founder of the Hindu right-wing Shiv Sena party in India, has raised concern in India (see Global Voices report).
Shops, cinemas, public transport and other businesses in Mumbai were quickly closed either as a show of respect, or in fear of mob violence by Shiv Sena supporters.
On Sunday, the funeral of Mr. Thackeray was held in Mumbai and an estimated one million mourners filled the streets of the city bringing it to a halt.
In Palghar, police reportedly detained 21-year-old Shaheen Dhada after she posted this status update on her Facebook:
People like Thackeray are born and die daily and one should not observe a bandh (total shutdown) for that.
Her friend Renu Srinivas, who ‘liked’ the update, was also arrested.
The police took action after a complaint was made at the Palghar police station by Bhushan Sanke, a local Sena leader.
Punjab Chief of Shiv Sena, Mr. Sukhdev Sandhu, along with the other members pay tribute to Bal Thackeray.
Amritsar, India.
18th November 2012.
Image by Gauravjeet Singh Chhina.
Copyright Demotix.However, journalist Sreenivasan Jain reported in Twitter:
@SreenivasanJain @Viv2511 Acc. to police, girl not arrested.
Someone made a complaint, they are looking into it.
Prasanto K Roy added:
@prasanto @SreenivasanJain Reportedly girls not arrested but detained under supervision in police station, charged under section 66A, IT Act @Viv2511
Section 66-A of the Indian IT act deals with messages sent via computer or communication devices which may be “grossly offensive,” have a “menacing character,” or even cause “annoyance or inconvenience".
The Lighthouse reports:
The girls were arrested today afternoon but have been granted bail after initially being sent to judicial custody.
After effects: The girl apologized for her mistake but then it was not enough to the more than 2000 (the number seems to be exaggerated also) Shiv Sena supporters who later on attacked and ransacked her uncle’s orthopedic clinic at Palghar taluka of Thane district.
The Times of India confirmed the incident:
They (Shiv Sainik) were upset over a comment on Bal Thackeray posted on a social networking site by young Shaheen Dhada, the niece of the owner of the hospital.
The sainiks, armed with iron rods and sticks, charged into the Dhada orthopedic hospital at around 9.30pm.
They broke expensive hospital equipment and furniture besides vandalizing the operation theatre.
NDTV reports that some of the Shiv Sainiks who were involved in the attack were arrested.
The Press Council of India has demanded "immediate" action against police personnel for arresting the girls.
Netizens were outraged.
On Twitter:
@drsarosh: @indexcensorship @bdutt @dilipthecherian shaheen questioned the logic of the bandh. by arresting her is the police endorsing the bandh? @DebSiddharth: “@harikunzru: India's latest free speech #fail.
Two girls arrested for fb posts about Bal Thackeray http://t.co/1jkrBLL9” "satyameva Jayate"
@abhisekhberiwal: RT @IndexCensorship: Two women in Mumbai have been arrested for a Facebook post, why are #India's politicians afraid of social media? http://t.co/tx4mwwu5
@DarshanSays: In #India better stop using facebook and twitter.. don't know when you will be jailed.
@dotcompals: Attention Mumbai Police : I endorse Shaheen Dhada's Facebook comments . Please arrest me ! @mesushovan: Henceforth I'll only tweet ............................... and .......................... to avoid an arrest.
Following the IT act of #India
Mr. Katju, a former judge in India’s Supreme Court, wrote an open letter to the Chief Minister of Maharastra in his blog:
To my mind it is absurd to say that protesting against a bandh hurts religious sentiments.
Under Article 19(1)(a) of our Constitution freedom of speech is a guaranteed fundamental right .
We are living in a democracy, not a fascist dictatorship.
Unemployed Young Italians: Too "Choosy" to Stay in Italy? · Global Voices
On October 22, 2012 at a meeting in Italy organised by Assolombarda , an association representing industry and service sector businesses in the Milan area, Elsa Fornero , the Minister of Labor, Social Policies and Gender Equality, declared: "Young people leave school and need to find an occupation.
They also can't afford to be too choosy, as you say in English.
They should, and this is something I always tell my students, 'Accept the first offered, and once inside you can take a look around'".
Photo from instagram @elisadospina, from the Generazione Choosy website
Her statement, which was made at a particularly dramatic moment on the unemployment front, especially among young people, immediately provoked controversy, as it was interpreted as an accusation against young people that they struggle to find employment because they are "picky".
According to the latest statistics from ISTAT, youth unemployment in Italy stands at 34.5% among 15 to 24-year-olds and around half of young people only have temporary and often underpaid jobs.
Italy has the third highest percentage of NEETs of all the European states, after Bulgaria and Greece, with ever increasing emigration rates leading to a so-called "brain drain".
The Minister then further explained her comment, declaring that she "never said" that young Italians were picky and that "they are prepared to take any job, because it's true that young people today are in a precarious position".
Fornero explained that her comment referred to a situation which was widespread in the past, when the refusal to do work they considered beneath their abilities was a commonplace attitude among young Italians, whereas, she said, "today young Italians cannot afford to be picky".
This clarification did not succeed in halting the controversy provoked by the comment and the term 'choosy' quickly became an online "craze", often being used sarcastically to criticise the Minister's declaration. Twitter provided plenty of plays on words under the hashtag #choosy — including the following:
Several contributors expressed their intention to leave Italy, while those already living overseas expressed their certainty that working conditions are better.
I understand why it's worth your while not to be picky and to accept being a babysitter first and then do everything else afterwards.
I can understand why a minister, or any adult with some common sense, might advise young people not to be "choosy", but to roll up their sleeves and to get started somewhere.
I certainly wouldn't have gotten the job I have today by staying at home and sending out CVs.
Last but not least, there are those that have reacted positively, looking beyond the controversy, and decided to launch Io Voglio Restare (I Want to Stay), an initiative which aims to get people working together to improve working conditions for young Italians and to prevent Italy becoming a country that people only want to leave.
Syria Destruction in Photos · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protests 2011/12.
Syrian photographers from around the country are revealing, sharing, and archiving Syria's uprising through photographs which showcase destruction.
Despite the limited media sources, what comes out from Syria shows the horrific reality Syrians on the ground face as they see their country being literally torn apart.
Although there is no liable resources to confirm the locations of the photographs nor the number of victims, the next few pictures are just a sample to consider of how Syria's infrastructure and residential areas have been affected.
Among hundreds of photographers, Yazan Homsy ‏shares with us scenes from the destruction of Homs.
He describes himself as:
@YazanHomsY: Yazan Homsy, son of the great Homs, activist in the Syrian revolution, from Khalidya neighborhood.
Revolution until victory or martyrdom
He has posted his pictures on his Facebook, illustrating the destruction of buildings in Homs city.
Here are two of his photographs, used with permission.
Homs: 139-days siege of 14 block in the city.
Six months and Assad militia used all kinds of explosives and missiles to destroy the besieged neighborhoods of Homs.
Source: Yazan Homsi Facebook page.
Old market in Homs after been bombed and burned.
06/13/2012.
Syrian News Network S.N.N has also been active in updating its website and posting photographs recording the destruction in Syria´s three main cities - Aleppo, Homs, and Damascus - on a daily basis.
Here is a selection of pictures:
Syria - Homs - 10/21/2012 - Destruction as a result of the bombing of Al Assad forces- Photo by Mohammed Ibrahim - SHAAM NEWS NETWORK _BAR_ SNN reporter (108).
Syria - Homs - 10/21/2012 - Destruction as a result of the bombing of Al Assad forces- Photo by Mohammed Ibrahim - SHAAM NEWS NETWORK _BAR_ SNN reporter (102).
Syria - Homs - 10/19/2012 - Destruction as a result of the bombing of Al Assad forces- Photo by Mohammed Ibrahim - SHAAM NEWS NETWORK _BAR_ SNN reporter (39).
Syria - Aleppo - the old city - 13/10/2012 - Destruction and fire as result to shelling on Umayyad Mosque (12).
Source SHAAM NEWS NETWORK _BAR_ SNN. Used with Permission.
Spain: Catalan Newspaper Censors Blog for Reporting Hunger Strike · Global Voices
Catalan journalist and Global Voices contributor Lali Sandiumenge recently decided to disassociate her blog on digital activism, Guerreros del teclado or "Keyboard Warriors" from Catalonia's leading daily newspaper, La Vanguardia .
The decision came after the publication's editorial staff decided to delete her post explaining a hunger strike in Barcelona by six workers of Telefónica, a telecommunications company in Spain.
Imatge del bloc després de ser retirat el post.
On March 1, 2011, she decided to associate her blog , which shestarted in 2007 , with La Vanguardia in the hope of tackling the topic of cyber activism.
On November 9, Ms Diumenge published an interview with six Telefónica workers to shine light on their hunger strike and analyze their use of the internet to combat the mainstream media's "siege" against them.
The following day, La Vanguardia's directors decided to take down the post — although they did not intend to shut down the blog altogether — as Ms Sandiumenge explained :
Spain: Minor Beaten by Catalonia's Police, Call for Minister to Resign · Global Voices
Image of a police van alongside a CiU campaign poster, which reads: "The will of a people" - Andy Ríos Jara (Photo used with permission)
The use of force by Catalonia's police force, Els Mossos d’Esquadra , during November 14, 2012's general strike (#14N ), has brought about a wave of online condemnation.
The events, which took place in the middle of an historic electoral campaign, has caused four of the region's political parties to petition for Catalonia's Interior Minister Felip Puig, to resign.
One of the more controversial cases is of two minors who were attacked by the police during the suppression of protestors who had allegedly acted violently.
Authorities have commissioned an investigation .
As the video above shows, during the police suppression of protestors, a thirteen-year-old boy received a serious blow and fell to the ground.
While he held his head and his family members came to his aid, a second officer arrived and dealt further blows to his back.
On the same block, a pair of officers cornered and hit a young girl, also a minor, who had booed them.
"The will of the people" and "Let it possible" - Photo uploaded by Twitter user @protozoo (Daniel Aguilar)
The online journal delcamp.cat , which had been publishing special coverage of the strike, spoke with the boy's parents, who claimed that he needed five stitches.
Student Beating Raises Issue of Homophobia in Jamaica · Global Voices
Jamaica and homophobia have started to become almost synonymous, thanks in part to one now-infamous song, originally written, as blogger Annie Paul explained in this 2009 post, "to protest the rape and kiling of a male child by, presumably, homosexuals":
From targeting one particular homosexual rapist and murderer, the song went on to become an anthem targeting all such predators.
The problem is that in Jamaica (as in many other places) male homosexuals are invariably seen as predatory and the proscription against predatory homosexuals then becomes one against all homosexuals.
The song, though, may have only added fuel to an already burning flame; three years ago, when the man responsible for the song, Buju Banton, met with gay rights groups in in United States who were upset about the message it was sending, some Jamaican bloggers still felt that it was going to be impossible to stem the tide.
Jamaica Salt said at the time:
’s too good a target for the gay rights campaign to get attention to the very big and very real problem of homophobia in Jamaica.
If anyone wanted proof that the problem was real, they didn't have to look too hard.
Just over a year ago, there was the media block on a public service announcement aimed at encouraging Jamaicans to unconditionally accept members of their families who are homosexual.
And in 2008, the country's then-Prime Minister, Bruce Golding, went on BBC's HardTalk programme and essentially declared that there was no room for gay people in his government.
A few days ago, a gay student at Jamaica's University of Technology (UTech) who was allegedly caught in a "compromising position" with one of his peers, suffered a beating at the hands of campus security guards.
The incident was captured on video and immediately went viral.
Twitter and Facebook soon became integral to the online discussion, but a few Jamaican bloggers wrote thoughtful and measured posts that took an in-depth look at the issue.
Raw Politics Jamaica Style saw the attack as a "severe threat...to the rule of law and democracy...in Jamaica":
By all accounts, the situation is extremely dire.
Not even Usain Bolt’s world record efforts can save us now.
On Thursday, November 1, 2012, a male student at the University of Technology was set upon and severely beaten by security guards, after being chased by a mob of his peers.
The reason?
He was suspected of being gay and was presumably one half of a duo caught in a ‘compromising situation’ on the campus.
Having run to the security post to escape the mob attack, the ‘gay’ student had his worse nightmare come true.
His source of refuge turned into the very thing he was fleeing.
Degraded and dehumanized in the worst way by the security personnel on duty, the ‘gay’ student was mercilessly beaten while an entertained audience filmed the obscene event, their bloodlust clear in the expletive filled chants for him to be killed.
This was, undoubtedly, a surreal scene from the theatre of the macabre.
But sadly that was real life and this is relatively commonplace in Jamaica.
In a post entitled "Sticks and Stones", Petchary's Blog opened with a nod to a fellow blogger, who said on Facebook:
Glad to hear Cliff Hughes describe the UTech episode as ‘homophobic'.
There’s far too much denial.
‘Oh no, We’re not homophobic!
Not us!’
Her post went on to address the question of the video:
The video was entitled 'Beat di Fish 2!' - using the latest hate-word for gays in Jamaica.
The video appears to show security guards beating up a young man in an enclosed area (the guard house of the aforementioned University) while a mob of mostly young men outside jeered, laughed and encouraged the guards to give the young man a good beating.
Some of these young men begged the guards to turn him over to them so they could deal with him.
Why was he being beaten?
The student was accused of having sex with another young man (who escaped – I hope he is very safe, somewhere).
It was very hard to watch, and to listen to the baying of the crowd, like hounds when they have cornered a fox in a hunt.
That eager yelping sound, that cry for blood.
And many of the supporters of the video added their virulent, sickening comments...
There were many expressions of genuine shock and despair, locally.
'I am ashamed to be Jamaican' was a common refrain among those with compassion for their fellow Jamaicans.
Civil society groups, notably Jamaicans for Justice and the Civil Society Coalition, have issued statements condemning the incident.
Some comments in the social media were more ambivalent, saying the two young men should have been more careful, and 'this is how gays are dealt with in Jamaica, right or wrong.' Other comments were more vicious.
I will not repeat them.
Two of the security guards were later fired.
Referring to a Facebook comment by another Jamaican broadcaster, Petchary noted:
Let us not deny this any more.
Jamaica IS a homophobic society.
It has been said by many outside and some inside Jamaica.
And it is true.
It is staring us in the face.
So, what are we to do about it?
Allow the mob to take over?
After all, there have been several instances of mob attacks recently, under various circumstances.
This is not only yet another example of human rights abuses against gays in Jamaica.
It fits into a pattern of intolerance, violence and blind ignorance that keeps repeating itself over and over.
It is like a tide washing over us, threatening to sweep us all away.
Where is this leading us?
Are we prepared to slip and slide down this slope?
Or are we prepared to dig our heels in, right now?
Are our leaders going to speak up, or remain silent?
And what about the churches?
After all, the homophobic bigots frequently use a certain passage in the Bible to justify their hatred.
Annie Paul wondered whether gay bashing had become a national policy and took a look at the societal push factors:
Here’s why I say almost everyone is to blame...The Education Minister Ronald Thwaites was on air yesterday righteously denouncing the episode and calling for the mob of students to be expelled.
Yet only a few days before that he was in the media talking about a ‘gay agenda’ which had apparently had a sinister hand in the reform of the health and family life education curriculum for high schools in Jamaica.
The problems with the withdrawal of the revised curriculum are succinctly stated by Maurice Tomlinson, a former UTECH lecturer, who had to flee Jamaica when he recently married his partner in Canada.
In a post titled Countdown to Tolerance Tomlinson points the finger at the brands of Christianity practised in the country for this interference in school curricula.
She also referred to the blocked J-FLAG public service announcement and republished a Facebook account of "an instance that actually happened in Jamaica which highlights the lethal absurdity of local hostility towards gays."
Finally, Diana McCaulay wrote a moving and powerful post about the incident:
It seems to me a Pontius Pilate moment, if I remember my Bible correctly.
An innocent man delivered up to a judge of sorts, a baying mob outside.
The judge seeks to appease the crowd with a beating but it is not enough.
And we know the end of that particular story.
She continued:
The day after the attack, I was utterly unproductive at work, constantly refreshing the Facebook pages and blogs I follow, to see what was being said.
There were no public comments following the articles published in Jamaica’s two daily newspapers.
This was highly unusual.
I wondered if, at long last, the editors of our mainstream publications had decided not to give hate speech any oxygen.
But the lack of comment was short lived.
It’s personal for me.
My son is gay.
Every hateful, bigoted, violent remark is flung directly at him.
I miss my son every day of my life, but I am so glad he does not live here.
The question is: Why do I?
I felt, still feel, deeply ashamed to be Jamaican.
I felt complicit in this attack because of my long ago decision to remain here, to claim my Jamaican nationality, my Jamaican identity.
Now, too late, I want to rescind that decision.
I don’t want to be identified as part of a nation that defends and supports an anti gay stance as being cultural, as being Christian, as being an aspect of our sovereignty, our right.
As they always have been, religious beliefs are being used as justification for the abrogation of the human rights of some.
Religious beliefs belong in places of worship among those who share such beliefs and nowhere else.
They must not have the weight of the State behind them.
In an interview with Cliff Hughes on Nationwide News Network on Friday, I heard the Minister of Education, Hon. Ronnie Thwaites, strongly condemn the U-Tech attack.
Well and good, Deacon Thwaites.
But it was you who recently pandered to the mob in the withdrawing of educational materials trying, however clumsily, to deal with the issue of respect and tolerance for gay people.
I am tired of pretending that all aspects of our culture are defensible.
They are not.
There is much about being Jamaican to be ashamed of – our violent and bigoted speech and action towards gays and lesbians tops the list.
The thumbnail image used in this post is by Stéfan, used under an Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 2.0 Generic (CC BY-NC-SA 2.0) Creative Commons license.
Visit Stéfan's flickr photostream.
Lenin in Tajikistan: 'Better Hitler' or 'Real Hero'? · Global Voices
On September 21, 1991, less than two weeks after Tajikistan proclaimed its independence from the Soviet Union, angry crowd toppled a monument to Vladimir Lenin in the center of Dushanbe.
The removal of the monument symbolized the desperate rush of the nationalist intelligentsia and some politicians to rid themselves of all reminders of their communist past.
The civil war that broke out soon afterwards delayed the demolition of many other monuments to the leader of the Bolshevik Revolution in the Central Asian republic.
Only in the 2000s, when the leadership of Tajikistan embarked on a new nation-building project, Lenin's monuments began to fall all over the country.
'Grandfather Lenin' disappeared from the central squares of major cities and towns in Tajikistan.
His monuments were replaced with newly sculpted statues of Ismoili Somoni, a ruler who is credited with creating a Tajik empire in the tenth century.
In most cities and towns of Tajikistan, Soviet monuments to Lenin were replaced with statues of Ismoili Somoni.
This monument to Somoni stands on Dushanbe's central square, right where Lenin's statue was toppled in 1991.
Photo by Alexander Sodiqov (2010).
A 'better Hitler'
The government's rush to take down Lenin's sculptures has provoked heated debates among the country's bloggers.
Some have argued that the monuments of the Soviet period should be destroyed and forgotten because of all the pain and suffering that the Bolshevik conquest inflicted on the region.
In December 2011, journalist Salim Aioubzod explained in his blog why there is no place for Lenin's statues in the new Tajikistan:
In November 1919, Lenin appointed Mikhail Frunze the commander of the Turkestan Front and sent him to Central Asia.
The "was not to conquer the territory, but to eliminate all enemies".
I believe this provides enough justification for burning everything related to Lenin and his gang.
His sculptures should be collected and destroyed.
They are not history; history is the pain that has tormented so many people ever since and will always continue to do so.
After 21 years of Tajikistan's independence, there are some statues and busts of Lenin remaining in the country.
This photo depicts a big sculpture of Lenin in Istaravshan, northern Tajikistan.
Image by Sergey Abashin (2012), used with author's permission.
The blogger also compared Lenin to Adolf Hitler, the leader of the fascist Germany:
If sculptures are , then why did Germany remove all statues of Adolf Hitler?
Yes, Lenin was a slightly better Hitler, although there isn't probably much difference in the number of people killed in the wars and terror the two individuals led.
Millions of people .
More recently, on November 1, Tojikzamin continued the discussion.
Perplexed by an observation that Lenin's statues can still be found in schools across Tajikistan, the blogger claimed :
We shouldn't forget that statues are not harmless objects.
Children which see Lenin every day during the 11 years of school will never love their Fatherland or their nation.
They will always think that we still live in a Soviet state, the state that is governed by 'mother Russia'.
These children will always think that 'Grandfather Lenin' was the greatest hero of the Tajik people and will not know the real heroes of our nation.
The continued presence of tens of monuments to Lenin in our independent republic disgraces all of the world's Tajiks.
This statue of Lenin long stood on the central square of Khorog, eastern Tajikistan, before being replaced in 2010 by a monument to Somoni.
Photo by Alexander Sodiqov (2009)
A 'real hero'
But some netizens think differently.
Commenting on the removal of Lenin's monument in Khujand, the northern Tajik city that had been called 'Leninobod' (the 'City of Lenin') between 1939-1992, Alexey Somin wrote in his blog:
Did the monument disturb anyone?
Did it prevent us from building a new state, based on new principles and values?
Why couldn't we just leave the monument to be where it was and to serve as a historical monument?
The most offensive thing is that Lenin's monuments and busts all over the country are replaced with monuments to Somoni.
Why?
What did Somoni do to deserve to replace Lenin?
Yes, he did found an empire a long time ago where Tajik was the state language.
But his empire was never called 'Tajikistan' and it collapsed after only 100 years.
After that, the Tajiks did not have a state of their own, they lived under the yoke of the Turkic peoples.
And in Lenin's period got a state of their own.
So who did more for the Tajiks and Tajikistan?
A massive statue of Lenin long dominated the landscape of Khujand (previously 'Leninobod'), in northern Tajikistan.
Photo by Alexander Sodiqov (2003).
Commenting under this blog, Dalnoboyshchik wrote :
I fully agree!
Lenin's statues should be left where they are!
This is our history, it should be respected.
Let them erect new monuments, to whomever they like, but they shouldn't touch Lenin.
History will show who was a real hero and who did more for our country.
The last days of Lenin's statue in Khujand.
Image by Asia-PLUS, used with permission.
What to do?
These ongoing debates over monuments are representative of larger battles over values and interpretations of history within Tajik society.
Meanwhile, some Tajik netizens also discuss what to do with the Soviet sculptures taken down by the authorities.
Underneath Somin's blog, Beparvo proposed:
I agree that Lenin's statue is a historical monument.
But in this case, this monument should not remain in the center of every town and village in Tajikistan.
It should be in the museum.
These monuments should not be disposed of or destroyed.
They are history.
They should be carefully and quietly taken to the museum.
Temur Mengliev has a different opinion:
We should be smarter.
The most important of Lenin's statues - from the historical and aesthetic points of view - should be taken to the museum.
And the rest of the statues - of which there are hundreds across Tajikistan - should be auctioned.
There are citizens for whom Lenin means much.
Let them purchase these monuments and place them in their yards or in dachas.
21 years into independence, some Tajiks still revere Lenin.
In Varzob, some 40 kilometers north of Dushanbe, a granite bas-relief of Lenin decorates a newly-built mansion.
Photo by Christian Mark Bleuer (2012), used with permission.
"Bombs are Falling Like Rain in Gaza" · Global Voices
Gazans stayed up all night as Israel continued to pound the Palestinian enclave.
The situation flared up when Israel and Gaza exchanged fire - which still continues now - after Israel killed Hamas military leader Ahmed Al-Jabari during an air raid on Gaza yesterday.
According to Press reports, the current bout of fighting has left up to 13 Gazans and three Israelis dead.
On Twitter, Ebaa Rezeq breaks down the toll on the Palestinian side:
@Gazanism: The toll until now: 15 martyrs (among them three children, a woman pregnant with twins and two elderly people), plus 140 injured #Gaza
Khaled Shawa shares a photograph of his neighbour's house burning after being shelled by Israel.
Photo credit: @KhaledShawa
Wael Ouda describes the intensity of the shelling around him:
@WillOuda: The drones are practically "walking" in the living room ....so loud and noisy over head. #Gaza
In another tweet, he shares the human cost, this latest bout of attacks is having:
@WillOuda: Death toll: 14-15 deaths and 120+ injuries #Gaza
Gaza Under Attack.
Photo shared by @journeytogaza on Twitter
And Majed Abusalama exclaims:
@MajedAbusalama: Bombs falling like a rains now in NorthGaza# #GazaUnderAttacks
The video shows children playing - as explosions continue in the background.
Ola Anan comments:
@olanan: #GazaUnderAttack yet a group of children decided to play football in the street!
We teach life, world!
And Majed Abusalama adds:
@MajedAbusalama: Our morales are high in Gaza.
Let them destroy everything and kill our children but they will never be able to kill our will and our dreams.
To liberation by the will of God!
People queue outside a bakery to get bread in Gaza.
Photo shared on Twitter by @sarahussein
Meanwhile, journalist Sara Hussein, who was just able to cross into Gaza, shares a photograph people lining up outside a bakery.
She tweets:
@sarahussein: yfrog.com/nws02mjj Line outside #Gaza bakery.
People fear food shortages. #Israel #Palestinians
Journey to Gaza wonders if there will be a ground invasion:
@journeytogaza: Any news on #Israeli cabinet decision whether or not to launch ground invasion in #Gaza?
Twitter hashtags:
For more on the conversation on Twitter, check out the hashtags: #PrayForGaza, #GazaUnderAttack and #Gaza.
Further Reading:
Mondoweiss: Two new resources: Timeline of Israeli escalation in Gaza and Israel’s history of breaking ceasefires
The Guardian: Israel and Gaza militants in deadly exchanges - live updates
An Online Project for Monitoring the State of Russia's Roads · Global Voices
The "RosYama" project is a method of monitoring the state of the roads and their compliance with latest government standards.
Anyone who notices a roadway that fails to meet these standards can use RosYama's service.
The coordinator of RosYama, Fyodor Ezeev, told Evgeny Voropai of Greenhouses of Social Technologies how he has long since stopped seeing the borders between the online and offline worlds, and why "targeted" projects are more effective than universal ones.
Fyodor Yezeev.
Photo supplied by owner.
Fyodor Ezeev: I think that RosYama has three components which lead to its successes.
First of all, the relevancy of the theme — potholes on the roads genuinely bother many people.
Secondly, the influence of Navalny meant that a large amount of people found out about the project from the very start.
Thirdly, RosYama differentiates itself from similar road projects by assisting users with composition of complaints and by taking on the legal aspects of the task.
Evgeny Voropai: How has the behavior of users changed since RosYama was first established.
F.E.: Our audience has decreased by about two or three times, but the number of registered potholes has increased at about the same rate.
Which means that every visitor now registers about five times as many potholes as before.
People have stopped visiting the site out of curiosity but there are more of those who use it as intended.
E.V.: RosYama is an automated service of submitting complaints with a significant number of active users.
Tell us what the project team does in Moscow and the regions.
F.E.: RosYama isn't an automated service for forwarding complaints.
User complaints must be submitted independently.
The RosYama team works on the site and advises project users.
E.V.: When a project works on a model of cooperation that is "The user is in charge", it is important to soberly appraise the active participation of your audience.
What other indicators can tell you that your project is effective and working?
F.E.: The only indicator of the viability of any action is the presence or absence of tangible results.
RosYama's tangible results are more than 8,500 fixed potholes.
E.V.: You've written on your blog that after the debates, the number of visitors grew by 58%.
Would you say that public management of internet projects is more effective than traditional management?
F.E.: The the effectiveness of any marketing, as a rule, is very short-term.
I believe RosYama needs to pay more attention to the development of possibilities for our users and ease of use.
These actions bring good long-term results.
E.V.: The blogosphere has actively responded to your participation in the elections of the opposition's Coordinating Council.
Were there worries that this might negatively affect RosYama?
F.E.: No, there were no such worries.
E.V.: "Seven candidates for seven projects" is represented by the managers and coordinators of internet projects.
If they were to start working in the offline world, how would this affect their online activities?
F.E.: I've stopped seeing the boundaries between the online and offline worlds a long time ago.
The internet is only another means of transmitting information, a method of connecting people.
Just like a phone, for example.
One person uses a telephone to pointlessly yap for hours, while another orders his broker to sell a portfolio of shares worth millions of dollars.
E.V.: Before "RosYama" we already had "RosPil", after that "RosUznik" appeared and then "RosVybory".
Have you tracked the migration of a loyal audience from one project to another?
F.E.: I haven't.
I'd suppose that it's zero or practically zero.
If someone is interested in government tenders, he won't stop being interested in them because of RosUznik.
E.V.: In your posts on LiveJournal, you point out that the audience often doesn't see the connection between their immediate problems and free elections.
But at the same time all these "Ros-projects" are very targeted and don't allow the audience to see these issues as part of a complex whole.
Has there been any plan to integrate all these projects into one, but with larger scope?
F.E.: I believe that our projects achieve their success in large thanks to their "targeted-ness".
The idea "do a little, but well" works better than the idea "do a lot, but badly".
As for the link between the immediate problems of citizens and free elections — its participation in a project like RosYama that allows them not only to see, but to feel this connection, practically touch it.
E.V.: You've worked in a large internet company, then you began the civic project RosYama.
Did it change your approach to work and task performance?
F.E.: I try to only take on tasks which I'm actually interested in solving.
Other superficial factors have practically no meaning for me.
This interview was conducted by Evgeny Voropai, the original is available on Teplitsa's website.
Tracking Counterfeit Medicines in the Developing World · Global Voices
Many innovative solutions are being proposed to help tackle the spread of counterfeit drugs in developing countries.
Technological innovations to track counterfeit drugs
Ashifi Gogo from Ghana is an entrepreneur with an innovative solution involving mobile phones.
In simplified terms, the idea is to place a scratch-off label on the products; the label contains a unique code, which the consumer sends via SMS and then receives a reply as to whether the product is authentic or not.
In this TEDx Boston talk, Ashifi Gogo explains how his solution works by combining cell phones, community, and the cooperation of governments and pharmaceutical companies:
After the Duo-Cotecxin incident in Kenya, Holley-Cotec, the company that manufactures the antimalarial, introduced a new technology to make the tablets tamper-proof.
James Nyikal, director of Medical Services in Kenya explains :
New packets of the drugs will have three-dimensional hologram seals and other features to indicate the drugs are authentic. "Is this drug real or counterfeit?
Image by Wayan Vota on Flickr (CC BY-NC-SA 2.0) Rajendrani Mukhopadhyay reviews the solutions currently available to identify genuine medicines.
He shares some surprising anecdotes:
The screening first consists of a close visual inspection.
Inspectors scrutinize the packages, because they need to be certain that an intention exists to deceive the consumer.
“If you just have the tablets or the capsules, even if they have no active ingredient, it still could have been an innocent mistake in the factory.
Some of the packaging errors on counterfeit drugs are quite comical.
On one, the expiry date was before the manufacturing date, so we knew something wasn’t quite right!”
To the point, PSI notes: The regions that are more frequently linked to incidents are not necessarily those with weak enforcement and inspection programs.
Rather, countries in these regions are effectively identifying pharmaceutical crime through law enforcement activity and inspections by drug regulatory agencies.
Despite the innovation mentioned earlier, detecting counterfeit drugs is still a very difficult task and requires both advanced technology and the capacity to strictly enforce international regulations.
For instance, many defective and counterfeit antimalarials were reported in developing countries this year but only after patients had been treated.
In 2012, a study showed that one-third of antimalarial medications in Southeast Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa failed chemical analysis, packaging analysis, or were falsified.
In 2007, the Ministry of Health in Kenya issued a warning about counterfeit antimalarial medication Duo-Cotecxin being sold in Nairobi and how to detect it.
Lawrence Evans, a researcher who has conducted a study in Guyana and Suriname on the quality of antimalarial drugs says:
Besides the presence of medicines not included in the World Health Organization malaria treatment guidelines, the ease with which medications were procured without accurate diagnosis poses another major risk to patients' safety.
In addition, this could have serious implications for the development of drug-resistant strains of Plasmodium parasites, particularly Falciparum, as novel treatments are not foreseeable in the near future.
Prisca in Madagascar explains why people do not go to pharmacies anymore and venture into the informal market:
Kenya has been selected among nine other African countries that will benefit from a new multi-billion shillings drive in search for an anti-malaria vaccine.
“New malaria drugs and a vaccine are urgently needed in Africa, where malaria has grown resistant to the cheapest and most widely-used treatments.
As several promising new drugs and vaccines move through the research pipeline, there is a need to build African capacity to conduct large-scale clinical trials of these drugs and vaccines over the next decade,” said Prof Binka .
Sierra Leone: Mapping Out Real-Time Election Data · Global Voices
Sierra Leone holds its third national election since the end of their civil war on 17 November, 2012.
A coalition of monitoring organisations in the country, National Election Watch, will map out real-time election-related data using OneWorld's monitoring technologies.
In an email conversation, Amanda Fortier, OSIWA Communications Assistant, describes the project:
The election monitoring project, Sierra Leone Elections Live: Citizens' Situation Room implemented by National Elections Watch, is named for the wartime situation room, and uses an online tracking tool to monitor polling results in real time.
It was used for the first time ever in Nigeria, Liberia, Senegal and now in Sierra Leone.
The idea is to ensure credible elections that are fair and transparent, and to help put civil society at the forefront so they can diagnose, anticipate and prepare for immediate action in the event of fraud or violence.
It was a very successful project that Hilary Clinton even mentioned during her recent visit to Senegal a few weeks back.
Map of districts of Sierra Leone.
Photo released under Creative Commons (CC BY-SA 3.0) by Wikipedia user Acntx.
What exactly is Sierra Leone Elections Live?:
Sierra Leonean civil society will have unprecedented access to real-time data on information including turn-out, voter demographics, corruption levels and results during their national election on November 17.
In Freetown, National Election Watch (a coalition of monitoring organizations), will receive coded SMS reports sent from a statistically significant sample of their 9,493 trained election observers - based in every polling stations across the country.
The messages will be deciphered, verified and mapped using OneWorld’s real-time monitoring technologies, enabling NEW to make informed and immediate interventions.
The data will also be published on this website for anyone to see, in real-time - or as soon as local internet access permits!
Why does Sierra Leone need real-time election data?:
Traditionally, collecting and analyzing data from election observers can take hours or even days, which is often too late to affect the course of events.
A Situation Room, powered with real-time data from a statistically significant sample of polling stations, will enable NEW to coordinate immediate responses to serious incidents (calling on election officials, law enforcement and local and international media) and to make informed pronouncements about the status of the elections as they are happening.
Who are the people behind Sierra Leone Elections Live?:
The National Election Watch (NEW) is the largest coalition of monitoring organizations in Sierra Leone. It began operations in 1997 and deployed over 5,500 observers during the 2007 Presidential elections.
One has to wait and see if real-time data from Sierra Leone Elections Live will enable the National Election Watch and other stakeholders to coordinate immediate responses to violence during and after the elections.
Last weekend`s clashes were between supporters of the APC and those of the main opposition Sierra Leone Peoples Party (SLPP), and it comes just 19 days before voting.Reports say at least ten people were wounded.
Both parties have claimed the other side attacked first.
Kono is the home of the incumbent Vice President Alhaji Samuel Sam Sumana, but the area previously voted in favour of the opposition SLPP.
The main opposition party, Sierra Leone Peoples Party (SLPP), claims that supporters of the ruling party have been engaging in illegal activities:
The SLPP alleges that the Sierra Leone Police on one occasion on the 20th of October arrested members of a dance troupe coming out to support the party after the dancers were accused of being Kamajors. Lastly, the opposition party says that posters of its presidential candidate Julius Maada Bio are turned down by APC supporters.
The party is calling on the police, NEC, and PPRC to take note as the laws of Sierra Leone guarantee certain rights to all political parties.
Mohamed Kabbah Turay argues that election violence sabotages nationalism in the country:
Violence seems to be garnering weight of momentum amongst some political gurus, one needs no evidence, but only to scan through the literature of their political discourse you could find your answer.
Comments like: we are not going to tolerate political intimidation without retaliating further, by few people who called themselves state-men or working to be one are indeed reckless and un-nationalistic.
Only yesterday a man was beaten and lost his car through vandalizing act at the Saint John roundabout just because he was expressing his political freedom of choosing party regalia bearing the emblem of red.
This simple democratic value cannot be stomached by certain party hoodlums and power drunkards who left their fellow citizen for the hospital.
This uncultured act was carried out by no lesser political party, but the one that prouds itself with the spirit of ‘one people one country philosophy’, forensic the act only spells doom and cast negatives as against the kind of leaders we are breeding for the mere feature.
Another isolated incident is a case of where the flag-bearer of the SLPP party Julius Maada Bio was not welcomed in the spirit of democracy and as a Sierra Leonean, especially the leader of the second most powerful political party in the country at the Dwarzark community is despicable and militates against nationalism.
Another organisation, Journalists for Human Rights (JHR), has a campaign to keep Sierra Leone's elections free and fair.
You can view JHR's film about the need to keep elections coverage balanced in Sierra Leone or to find out more information about the campaign here.
You can also visit them on Facebook.
Spain: Catalan Elections - "We are all Garcia" · Global Voices
This Sunday, November 25, 2012 voters in Catalonia head to the polls against the backdrop of a lagging economy and fierce debate about secession from Spain.
The electoral campaign, which has honed in on the question of independence, began last week with a polemic video posted on the Youtube channel of the unionist Catalan People's Party (Partit Popular de Catalunya or PPC).
The video, which makes the claim that the government of an independent Catalonia would mandate Catalans of Spanish origin to change their last names, marks an attempt by the PPC to drive the debate on secession in an ethnic direction — garnering harsh criticism from political rivals and their supporters, who have employed inclusive rhetoric , deliberately trying to frame the debate along ethnic and more generally cultural lines.
The video takes place on the first day of Catalonia's independence, in which a man is forced to change his last name from Garcia, one of Spanish origin, to a Catalan name, Garriga.
The scenario turns out to be a fictitious nightmare and viewer is made to believe that, in order to end this nightmare, he needs to vote for PPC.
The video which already has more than 70,000 hits on youtube has rapidly generated a negative reaction among Catalan netizens on Twitter, who created the hashtag #totssomgarcia or "we are all Garcia", expressing solidarity with "Spanish" Catalans and criticizing the divisive content of the PPC campaign spot.
Some have highlighted the video as erroneous, since Garcia is actually the most common surname in Catalonia and its ethnic origins are ambiguous.
Some users have also highlighted the irony that the only time in Spain when names were prohibited was during the dictatorship of Francisco Franco — whose former ministers went on to found the Spanish People's Party, with which the PPC is affiliated.
Catalan TV Show Flares Debate Over Independence from Spain · Global Voices
Catalonia's news program "30 minuts" , which has aired weekly on the region's public television channel TV3 since 1984, recently broadcast an episode on the question of Catalonia's geopolitical status, called "Independence, step by step."
The episode comes at a complicated time, just a week before campaigning begins for the region's early round of elections (to be held on November 25, 2012), which are largely considered to be a plebiscite on Catalonia's independence from Spain.
The entire episode can be viewed on TV3's website .
Catalonia's unionist opposition parties have seized the moment as an opportunity to criticize the content of Catalan public television, accusing President Artur Mas of using it to spread separatist propaganda to support his party's (CiU ) chances of retaining parliamentary control.
Nevertheless, "Independence, step by step," has enjoyed very high ratings as the most-watched episode of the past four seasons.
Some 750,000 viewers (22.3% of Catalonia's television audience) watched the episode, according to a survey by Kantar Media.
The program quickly became a topic of hot online debate, as the hashtag #30minuts began trending on Twitter during the Sunday broadcast and continued to do so until Monday morning.
The wide-ranging reactions to the program seem to match the complexity of the region's politics, reinforcing the analysis that the debate surrounding the question of Catalan nationhood is anything but simple.
Those who praised the episode commented on what they believed to be journalistic integrity, marked by a presentation of diverse and opposing expert opinions on the question of Catalonia's independence from Spain.
Miquel Roca , a Catalan nationalist politician and one of the fathers of the Spanish constitution, as well as Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón, Spain's minister of justice, were among the program's interviewees.
A New Start for Barack Obama in Africa? · Global Voices
With Barack Obama re-elected to the Presidency of the United States for four years after the election of November 6, 2012, Africa is reviewing his legacy.
This following his four years at the head of an America more concerned with the economic crisis than international relations, especially within the African continent.
The expectations of Africans were great, but many think that the second term of President Obama will enable him to have a wider margin of manoeuvre on African issues.
U.S. President Obama walks with Malia, Michelle and Sasha following, during their visit to Cape Coast Castle, Ghana via pd2020@sbcglobal.net on FlickR (CC license-NC-BY)
Adrien Hart wrote on Slate Africa that the African legacy of President Obama is rather mixed.
He explained :
Four years ago, few could have predicted that one of President Obama's legacies would be increased militarization of U.S. foreign policy towards Africa - but that seems to be the case.
Promiscuous war-making leads to unintended consequences.
For example, U.S. intervention in Libya stoked the civil war in Mali, as Tuaregs serving in Gadhafi's army joined the fight after the dictator's fall.
It's not clear that our expanded military presence in Africa serves any pressing U.S. national security need.
The Ambassador of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Henri Lopès, thinks that the expectations placed by Africans on Obama’s policies were unjustified.
On RFI, he stated :
Catalonia: Independence from Spain to Do What? · Global Voices
This post is part of our International Relations & Security coverage.
Pro-independence rally on Via Laietana (Barcelona) on September 11, 2012.
By Lohen11 on Wikimedia Commons (CC BY-SA 3.0)
On November 25, 2012 Catalans headed to the polls for a snap regional election. The polls were staged just two months after a massive pro-independence rally took place in Barcelona.
Voter turnout peaked at almost 70%, the highest in 30 years, and the four political parties committed to holding a referendum on self-determination (CiU-ERC-ICV-CUP) got more than twice as many seats as those defending the status quo (PSC-PP-C).
Crucially, both of Catalonia’s major parties - the governing center-right CiU and socialist PSC - suffered severe setbacks.
Accordingly, it appears that Catalonia is now set to hold a referendum on its ties to the rest of Spain, and that it does not trust its major political parties to steer the process.
Spain, however, will not make it easy for the Catalans to vote, as any attempt to divide Spain can be considered illegal under the country's constitution, written in 1978 after the fall of Francisco Franco's dictatorship.
Cultural differences aside, many Catalans feel attracted to independence because it would provide opportunities to build a new state that is more efficient, democratic, transparent, and innovative.
An independent Catalonia could be very different from today’s Spain where economic crisis, opacity and patronage politics are often denounced to be commonplace.
But could an independent Catalonia lead to the break-up of the establishment dynamics that have dominated Spain since the late-1970s?
The optimists believe so.
For instance, the economic viability of an independent Catalonia has been widely discussed, and is considered possible so long as there are few trade barriers.
But viability is not only about having enough resources.
Economist Jordi Galí writes in a Catalan newspaper op-ed translated by the Wilson Initiative:
This report and other similar ones, such as the World Competitiveness Report, only confirm what is evident for any business manager: the Spanish institutional framework is far from being ideal for the generation of wealth based on productivity.
The building of a new State offers, therefore, a unique opportunity to start, from scratch, an ambitious and engaging process that looks to the future without being weighted down by the past.
But how productive a society based on patronage politics can be?
Taking inspiration from the book Why Nations Fail by Acemoglu and Robinson, Adrià Alsina writes on e-notícies on the need to change Catalonia’s power structures:
The extractive elites control public power and the big service companies, and form a caste that takes up the country's wealth just as parasitics do with hosts.
They disguise it as national interest, public service or local industry protection, but it is always the same protection of the privileges of a minority over the interest of the majority.
In a follow-up article , he adds:
If Catalonia reaches its own state, it will have the opportunity of getting rid of this yoke, but it could also just replace some extractive elites with for others. ...it is this structure that we have the opportunity to change in the next years: the terrible collusion between economic and political elites that lead us to disaster.
To the real estate bubble financed by para-public banks at the service of politicians and construction businessmen, to the fact that most Catalan companies still date back to Franco's times.
Some doubt this structural change is possible with the major centre-right wing party CiU leading the process.
For example, the blog and Twitter account @CiUensRoba (‘CiU is Robbing Us’), with 6,810 followers, says on its Twitter profile description:
Catalonia deserves an independence without thieves.
CiU has stolen our freedoms, sovereignty, identity, welfare... and will keep doing it!
Others point out that ending corruption generally is far more urgent than independence from Spain.
At the Catalan oasis there aren't dates (for the people, of course). We want independence, but with that sack of political corruption on our back?
@afarrasc: The magistrates have waited until #25N+2 to charge PSC leaders with alleged corruption. Judicial independence is more urgent than Catalonia's
An independence process would shake the political and economic order of the region.
However, it will take much more than a referendum to shake social and power dynamics.
Could it be a first step?
This post and its translations to Spanish, Arabic and French were commissioned by the International Security Network (ISN) as part of a partnership to seek out citizen voices on international relations and security issues worldwide.
This post was first published on the ISN blog, see similar stories here.
Mobs Burn Dalit Homes in Response to Intercaste Marriage in India · Global Voices
On 7 November 2012, up to 2,000 people attacked three Dalit settlements in the Dharmapuri District of Tamil Nadu in India, according to the International Dalit Solidarity Network (ISDN) with sources from The Hindu, IBN, Times of India and Countercurrents.
According to newspaper reports, a nursing student, from the Vanniyar (Shudra) community married a man from Aadidravida (dalit) community in the Natham Colony.
After her father committed suicide in disgrace, mobs organized against the Dalit community.
According to ISDN, the mobs came in the afternoon in vast numbers, looting Dalit homes and torching them with petrol bombs.
Hundreds of homes were damaged and 1,500 Dalits left without shelter and belongings.
As Vidya Bhushan Rawat (@freetohumanity), a social and human rights activist, writes in Countercurrents in a post titled Caste And Honor:
The violence against Dalits in the Dharmapuri district of Tamil Nadu is a shocking reminder of social prejudices prevalent in our society and how honor is closely linked to our caste identity.
According to Rawat, “The newspapers have not reported the entire incident and completely ignore as who are the people who have attacked.
It is important to identify the communities.
It is open and unambiguous that the biggest violence against the Dalits in Tamiladu is inflicted by Thevars and Vanniyars, two major shudra communities lead by different political parties.”
While this kind of violence is not permitted in the constitution, “violence against Dalits cannot evaporate with simple rule of law.”
Guriya & Desi Lal are Dalits or untouchables, part of the Harigans, the people in charge of cleaning the streets.
Image by Yan Seiler.
Copyright Demotix (27/9/2011)
Newspapers have also suggested that there have been nearly ten inter-caste marriages between Vanniyars and Dalits in this village, suggesting that the violence was incited for political purposes to prevent the threat of growing incidents of such cases in a systematic and 'well-organized' attack.
According to IDSN, Henri Tiphagne, executive director of the human rights organization People’s Watch, (an IDSN associate) traveled to the area to assess the situation and provide assistance to children, as he says, “It was the most shocking of caste atrocity incidents that I have seen in my life so far in terms of the effect of the incident – one inter-caste marriage that has been performed with police knowledge and protection resulting in violence with 430 houses attacked.”
@Rights4Edu (Rights for Education): #Dalit students face #discrimination in Dharmapuri http://thne.ws/WxZYiZ via @thehindu #inclusiveeducation. ‏@dhilipYo (Dhilip Joe Ramki): ‏Industrialise southern districts: Sarath Kumar: Condemning the recent violence against Dalits in Dharmapuri… http://dlvr.it/2WbNK3
According to @kotravai_n (Kotravai) there will be a protest organized by Saathi AAthikka Ethirppu kootiyakkam on November 30 near Memorial Hall at 4pm.
Additional information about the incidents in Dharmapuri can be found at Sanhati in a post titled “Fighting Neoliberalism in Bengal and Beyond.”
Afro-Brazilian Women, Tight Curly Hair and Black Consciousness · Global Voices
“You can wear your hair loose at my school, but I don't like to because it's dry and looks bad.
My hair looks bad."
This statement was uttered by a young girl on the web documentary Raíz Forte (Strong Roots), which depicts how black women in Brazil have historically dealt with their hair.
According to the description on the documentary's Facebook page, the idea is to "start a discussion about hair in terms of belonging to and explaining our African ancestry."
On November 20, Brazil celebrated Black Awareness Day; in honor of the day, we invite you to watch this film whose first-person narrative connects different protagonists' stories, depicting many years of social prejudices as well as the protagonist's own prejudices.
The three-part documentary begins with an overview of the techniques used to work with the tight, frizzy curls of young black girls and proceeds to show how a number of woman have presented their hair in the face of options available to them during their youth and adolescence.
The third and final episode presents experiences from youth through adolescence of a number of women that have marked them to this day.
In an interview on the blog Meninas Black Power (Black Power Girls), Charlene Bicalho, creator of the documentary Raiz Forte, shares her own experience with her hair.
According to Charlene, her "roots" were dismissed from infancy through adulthood, and her natural hair was masked in a number of ways, such as braiding, "straightening as salvation for problem," the consequent brittleness, and dependence on expensive, chemical treatments.
Finally, at age 26, she decided to do something that would allow her to once again discover just what her hair was really like.
And the result?
Charlene recalls:
Charlene Bicalho
Black women began approaching me everywhere, asking what I did to get my hair that way.
More people approached me the more I let my hair grow.
And this began to affect me because I saw myself reflected in those women; I saw in them how I had been years before.
So then I started a cultural project to discuss this topic in order to show these women that there are ways to take care of your hair that are different from the ways traditionally taught .
And it was from these reflections that the project RAIZ FORTE emerged!
The relationship between prejudice, black women and tight, curly hair is found in many sectors of society and the media.
As expressed on the website Jezebel, in an article entitled "Bombril pads are steel scouring pads.
Kinky hair is another thing all together," Livia Deodato criticizes the comparison of steel scouring pads to her hair:
Uggg, just when we think that we left all of this attitude behind us in the eighties, along comes Bombril , aware of the prejudice associated with its brand, of course, and decides to hold a contest to discover the best female singer in Brazil on the Raul Gil program: Women Who Shine, whose logo is the shadowed profile of a woman with tight, curly hair.
(The winners of the contest, which ran from June to October 2012, were signers Bruna and Keyla, notably blonde and not Afro-Brazilian).
The blog Cabelo Crespo é Cabelo Bom (Kinky Hair is Good Hair), by reporter Mariangela Miguel, has the same objective as the documentary: to show that tight, curly hair is just as good as straight hair:
When your hair only grows upwards, how do you explain to a 13-year old girl that she cannot even dream of having hair like the girls in Chanel ads?
Who's to blame?
Bad hair.
I believed that for many years.
Today, after much experience (about which I can tell you in detail), I came to the following conclusion: if my hair were really so bad, it would not have been able to handle the frequency of the b blow dryer, straightener and chemical treatment.
"This phenomenon through which women's hairdos go through is not exclusive to Brazilian women," the blog Colherada Cultural states:
The question is so frequently debated the United States that it has became part of the documentary entitled “Good Hair,”... shows how hair-product manufacturers act to market to black hair as well as the near total lack of blacks who proudly wear their tight curls.
Those of us who have always, and I mean ALWAYS AND FOREVER, been in conflict with our hair, our identity, our taste and the damn dictatorship of society"
And also for you who loves to criticize everything that is different.
The music stands for refusing stereotypes rampant in society and has been shared in the blogosphere as the “freedom song,” or so says the author of Diário de Bordo, Bordado a Bordô: ”the song of when one already has it, a tribute to the path that is.”
Minister Wert Sparks Humour on the Net · Global Voices
An article on online newspaper Núvol with the title "Send up #Wert" collects discussions, cartoons, jokes and word games inspired by statements and the education law reform proposed by Spanish Minister José Ignacio Wert.
Indigenous 'Idle No More' Movement Sweeps Canada · Global Voices
Thousands of people across Canada mobilized Monday, 10 December 2012 under the banner “Idle No More” to protest the effects of current and proposed government policies on the nation’s indigenous peoples.
While it has received little mainstream media attention, Idle No More has capitalized on social media networks to spread information about the widespread rallies, protests, and roadblocks, causing the hashtag #idlenomore to trend on Twitter in Canada this week.
The rallies -which continue to take place in major cities like Toronto, Ottawa, Edmonton, Winnipeg and Calgary- are the broadest expressions of discontent from First Nations that Canada has seen in years.
The movement has been deemed by some as “Native Winter,” in the style of the “Arab Spring” revolutionary wave that overtook the Middle East beginning in December 2010.
Idle No More protestors gather on the Blood Reserve in Standoff Alberta.
Photo by Blaire Russell, used with permission.
In one of the more high-profile actions of the Idle No More movement, Attawapiskat Chief Theresa Spence began a hunger strike on Tuesday which she plans to continue until Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Queen Elizabeth II agree to a treaty meeting with First Nations Leaders.
She stated that she is willing to die for her people unless the Conservative Harper government shows more respect for its indigenous citizens.
Aboriginal Affairs Minister John Duncan has offered to meet with Chief Spence.
Supporters have vowed to fast in solidarity with Chief Spence and are organizing via Facebook events in Toronto and other Canadian cities.
The Attawapiskat Nation received international attention in October of last year during a winter housing crisis that brought to light dismal living situation of the small Northern Ontario First Nations community.
Protestors point out that the Attawapiskat incident is just one example of the Conservative government’s negligence of First Nations’ needs.
A colonial relationship
The Idle No More movement was sparked by events on 4 December, when First Nations representatives were blocked from entering the House of Commons in Ottawa to discuss their concerns about a proposed Bill.
The Harper administration’s omnibus law, Bill C-45, has served as the rallying cry for the Idle No More movement.
Also known as “Jobs and Growth Act 2012,” Bill C-45 makes changes to the Indian Act without the consultation of First Nations.
It includes extensive amendments to more than sixty laws, including not only the Indian Act, but also the Navigable Waters Protection Act, the Fisheries Act and others.
Opponents argue these changes violate existing treaties and weaken environmental protection of land and water.
In her powerful and widely-discussed piece, “The natives are restless.
Wonder why?” Métis blogger Chelsea Vowel points out that this movement goes beyond protesting Bill C-45 to resisting a more systemic state-citizen relationship:
What it all boils down to is this.
Canada has not committed itself to addressing the colonial relationship it still has with indigenous peoples.
Canada is in denial about that relationship.
She goes on to explain the movement:
Today, in cities and communities all across the country, indigenous peoples are rallying together to speak out against a rash of hastily shoved-through pieces of legislation created without First Nations consultation.
Legislation that promises to have serious implications for aboriginal rights.
However, that is not the sum total of the issues being addressed.
The ongoing and unhealthy colonial relationship Canada has with indigenous peoples is at the root of this, and finds expression in so many problems from environment to health to incarceration to suicide to education to violence and so on.
Rallying under the cry of “Idle No More“, this truly grassroots movement is swelling as people take to social media in a way I can honestly say is unprecedented.
If you’re looking for one unified message, you’re not going to find it…unless it’s “hey Canada, you need to start taking our concerns seriously.
But it is not only First Nations who share this view.
In fact, in an interview with PostMedia News published on November 30, former Canadian prime minister Paul Martin discussed low levels of health and education among Canada’s indigenous groups.
He charged that in Canada:
We have never admitted to ourselves that we were, and still are, a colonial power...
And we continue that focus on assimilation.
There is no other reason, no other excuse for the discrimination in funding.
The Bill C-45 comes on the heels of other government actions that could weaken indigenous organizations.
In September 2012, the federal government announced budget cuts of at least 10% to all national and regional aboriginal representative organizations.
Emphasizing the legacy of these budget cuts, McGill University student and Metis-Cree writer Tanya L (@TanyaLalondie) tweeted on December 12:
@TanyaLalondie: I have watched cut after cut to programming aimed at helping our people heal, grow, develop and gain footing in an unequal world #idlenomore
But fellow Métis blogger Aaron Paquette argues that current neoliberal legislation affects all Canadians, not just the indigenous:
This government is attempting to systematically sell off our resources and make even more resources available for exploitation….
This is much greater than angry protesting natives, this is about becoming aware of the world in which you live.
Blogger Nora Loreto has compiled a post suggesting ways in which non-indigenous peoples can support and participate in the protests.
IKEA Monkey versus Idle No More
Idle No More Logo by Dwayne Bird.
Posted on Idle No More Facebook page.
Protest participants have criticized mainstream media for failing to cover the widespread protests.
Several bloggers noted that the recent story of a coat-wearing monkey in a Toronto IKEA received more attention than the countless First Nations rallies across Canada.
However, Twitter has exploded with activity from the movement under the hashtag #idlenomore.
Users have disseminated information about planned rallies, roadblocks and gatherings via social media.
As activist and writer Derrick O’Keefe notes, they hope that a continued social media presence will force the story of Idle No More into the mainstream.
For up-to-date information about the nation-wide movement, check out www.idlenomore.ca or join the movement’s Facebook page.
For images and updates on the campaign, please follow the Aboriginal Multi-Media Society.
The next major Idle No More gathering is set for December 21.
Top 10 Chinese Internet Memes of 2012 · Global Voices
With over 400 million Weibo (China’s twitter) users, Chinese social media has become a prominent source keeping people updated about what's happening in China.
As the year comes to an end, we've picked China's 10 most memorable Internet memes of 2012.
They cover scandal, celebrity, humour and buzzwords.
#1 Dog vs. Locust — China-Hong Kong conflict
Hong Kong netizens published an ad on Apple Daily,“Hong Kong people have had enough!” the ad says.
In response, Hong Kong netizens labelled the mainlanders “locusts” with an ad on Apple Daily showing a locust overlooking Hong Kong’s skyline.
“Hong Kong people have had enough!” the ad says.
The ad went viral on Weibo and was followed up with a collection of “had enough” parodies: Shanghainese complained that they have had enough of the migrant workers moving into the city, Beijingers complained that they’ve had enough of the rising real estate prices.
#2 Pussy high Miniskirt
In March, 2012, a model called Emily Zhou went viral after she posted photos online of her rich NPC delegate “godfather” (sugar daddy) and her shiny “pussy high Miniskirt”.
She went further to explain that the so-called “pussy high miniskirt” is a mini-skirt that is only long enough to cover a woman’s genitals.
Netizens suspected that the NPC delegate is another corrupted official with a well-kept mistress, and that Emily Zhou is just another “Guo Meimei”.
Although Emily later clarified that the man was not her sugar daddy, her “pussy high miniskirt” has since became a new meme online. Many netizens use it to refer to any mini skirt.
#3 Chen GuangCheng
When blind Chinese lawyer and civil rights activist Chen Guangcheng escaped from house arrest in the spring of 2012, it caught the attention of Chinese internet users.
Although the government blocked Chen’s name, netizens were able to circumvent the censorship.
An artist supporter of Chen created a KFC ad, featuring a cartoon version of Chen with the slogan “Free CGC.”
The "Free CGC" ad went viral on the Chinese Internet.
The Kentucky Fried Chicken ad began spreading across the Chinese Internet as support for Chen. The spreading of the meme was called “guerrilla activism”.
#4 "diaosi" and Tall-rich-handsome
The term "diao si" (屌丝) has been a buzzword among China's internet community since the start of the year.
It is a self-mockery term to describe “underprivileged losers” who lacked advantages that one must possess (good appearance, good family background or high social status) and who feel themselves leading dead-end lives with rising living costs and all sorts of competition and pressure from society.
On the contrary, there’s another buzzword for the tall, rich and handsome (高富帅 Gao-fu-shuai) or the fair-skinned, rich and beautiful (白富美 bai-fu-mei), both of which are considered as ideal husband and wife candidates in the Chinese society.
Funny as the buzzwords sound, it revealed the issues and mentality in modern Chinese society.
#5 Dress the Nude
On July 9, China Central Television CCTV reported about an Italian art exhibition at the National Museum of China.
When CCTV showed Michelangelo's sculpture on the news,they pixelated the statue’s private parts.
The video of the censored artwork was viewed by millions of Chinese netizens.
Netizens "dressed up" the paintings to mock CCTV.
One professor commented sarcastically: “Why not dress them up?”
Netizens were inspired. They soon used computer software to "dress up" the famous works of sculptures and paintings as an opportunity to mock CCTV.
#6 62%
In August, Yang Yiyong, Director of the State Development and Reform Commission’s Macroeconomic Research Institute for Social Development, said at a forum that China has acheived 62% of the task of rejuvenating the civilization based on the Great National Revival Process Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators.
Netizens found it ridiculous to use the index to measure the progress of China's revival, thus the "scientific" figure became a viral Internet meme.
They invented new ways to mock the report by being creative with the figure 62%.
One netizen wrote: “I was awaken by a text message when I was 62% into my sleep last night.”
Another wrote:“The mission of enlarging the gap between the rich and the poor is 62% complete.”
#7 Watch Uncle
In September 2012, Yang Dacai was removed from his post as head of the Shaanxi Administration of Work Safety after multiple photos of him were posted on the Internet showing him wearing at least 11 luxury watches on different occasions.
Following Yang's watch scandal, Fujian Province Transportation Chief Li Dejin and Lanzhou mayor Yuan Zhanting both joined the group, thus “watch uncle” became another term for corrupted officials.
Besides watches, ill-gotten gains also include houses and mistresses, thus “House Uncle” goes for Guangzhou City Panyu District Urban Management Bureau Chief Cai Bin, and “Second Uncle” goes for Chongqing city Beibei district Communist Party Chief Lei Zhengfu whose 12-second sex-tapes was exposed online by a journalist.
#8 “Are you Happy?”
In early October, China Central Television CCTV launched a program called “Holiday survey: are you happy?”
The reporters asked random people on the street whether they are happy, the result was bewildered and confused faces with some unexpected answers.
An elderly migrant worker answered: “My surname is Zeng,” apparently mistaking the question to mean, “Is your surname Fu?”
The program is perceived as an effort to show a “harmonious” society right before the opening of the 18th Party Congress.
The question “are you happy” soon went viral over the internet with netiens using it to embarrass and mock CCTV.
#9 Sparta
Sparta is another code internet users used to talk about the 18th National Party Congress.
Sparta in Mandarin sounds like the colloquial term for the 18th National Party Congress, “Shi ba da” , which was censored on Weibo before the Congress in November, 2012.
A search for Sparta or 斯巴达 yielded over 3.5 million results.
Netizens used this code to complain about “strange regulations” or internet slow down they experienced before the Congress.
"My Internet speed is becoming slower and slower, is this because of the approaching 'sparta'?" said one Weibo user.
#10 qie gao
Another buzzword “qie gao” (切糕, nut cake) was born by the end of 2012 due to the dispute between some Han Chinese locals and a few Uyghur rice cake vendors over the absurdly high price of nut cakes.
The dispute turned into a big fight.
The damage to rice cake and walnut candies was worth approximately 160,000 yuan ($25,700), 16 Uyghurs were compensated for all their damages and relocated to Xinjiang and the customer was placed under arrest by local Police.
The pro-Uyghur handle of the situation and ridiculously expensive “qie gao” soon caught netizens' attention. They uploaded pictures of “qie gao” on Weibo and shared their bad experience with Uighur cake vendors.
The incident also triggered Han nationality's complaints about preferential policies towards ethic groups in China.
Global Voices
Have you ever wondered how we at Global Voices do what we do?
Here's a behind-the-scenes look at how the 700-plus members of our diverse, global and entirely virtual community pull together stories.
Every day our section leaders, editors and volunteer authors and translators work together across borders, time zones and language barriers to amplify the best of citizen and social media, report on online freedom of expression and support others in joining the global conversation.
To kick off this year's holiday fundraising campaign, this breakdown of how one article came into being shows how the coordinated efforts of many people combine to make GV so unique.
October 23, 2012: João Miguel, from his home in Fortaleza, Brazil, e-mails his fellow volunteers on the Portuguese language team mailing list about an incident involving the Guaraní Kaiowá, the second largest indigenous ethnic group in Brazil, who are under threat of eviction from their ancestral lands in the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso do Sul. Janet, in the UK, quickly writes up a short post in English, while six other members of the group in five different cities in Brazil, Portugal and Spain get to work researching the story.
October 24, 2012: Sara, Global Voices' Portuguese language editor, publishes the story in Portuguese in collaboration with Diego, Elisa, João Miguel, Luís and Raphael.
October 25, 2012: Janet begins translating the piece into English, leaning on our Multilingual Editor Paula in London and João Miguel in Fortaleza for help with subtitling the embedded video.
The English version is sent to the sub-editor mailing list, where it's picked up by Kevin in Melbourne, Australia. Kevin proofreads the post, and it's published on the Global Voices in English site.
In just a few hours, nine people on three continents, five countries and seven cities have collaborated to spread the story of "The Cry of Resistance of the Guarani Kaiowa" to the world in Portuguese and English.
October 26, 2012: Ines translates the post into French.
October 31, 2012: Cristina, Mario and Gabriela translate the post into Catalán, German and Spanish, respectively.
November 2, 2012: Giulia translates the post into Italian.
Right now, other Global Voices teams are doing exactly the same, across borders and time zones and languages, to amplify important citizen-driven stories the mainstream media doesn't have the time or interest to cover.
We're thankful for the funding we receive from the foundations who've supported us over the years, but in order to keep doing what we do, and to stay independent, free and sustainable, we also depend on the generous support of independent friends and readers like you.
Your donations help cover the cost of server space, administrative costs, our microgrant programs and Global Voices staff.
This holiday season, please consider a gift to Global Voices.
Donate now »
Graffiti in Tehran · Global Voices
Iran is not known for its freedom of expression or popular demonstrations in the public.
But urban art is alive there.
Frescoes, mosaics and other 'approved' art adorn the walls in certain cities, underground art, although not as apparent as in Europe, is still visible in Tehran: graffiti, tags and stencils are discretely or more openly present in cities.
Some walls are completely covered with propaganda paintings—of a martyr, for example. But this can also be an abstract image, simply ornamental.
Some are true works of art.
A few weeks ago, a Tehran photographer sent these photos of graffiti via email; he enclosed this remark:
I took these in Tehran, near a bus stop.
I think someone is fighting with the municipality of Tehran.
One day he or she draws a graffiti, the other day the municipality removes it.
This goes on and on.
Photo: Issa Three weeks later, when I asked him for permission to quote him and to publish his photos, he said that it would be an honour for him and he wanted to add:
Now they painted something like a drawing or pattern on that wall to prevent that person from adding more graffiti.
But before that this wall was really dirty.
But now at least it's not dirty.
So the enemy of the municipality is now a friend of people because that wall is not dirty anymore.
Those who express themselves in Iran are more at risk than those in Europe.
Currently, no law exists in Iran, but if authorities consider the work to be subversive; in that case, the art might become a crime.
Street art is only springing up in Iran.
Let's hope it prospers.
'Industrial Scale’ Hunting of Migratory Amur Falcons in Nagaland, India · Global Voices
Every year thousands of migratory Amur falcons (Falco amurensis) are hunted by locals in the Indian State of Nagaland during their passage through that region.
The massacre was first documented on November 1, 2012, by Shashank Dalvi and Ramki Sreenivasan on the Indian online campaign site 'Conservation India' where they wrote that "a mind-boggling 120,000 to 140,000 birds are being slaughtered in Nagaland every year during their passage through the state."
Every October, a large numbers of Amur falcons arrive in northeast India and Bangladesh from Siberia en route to their final destination — Somalia, Kenya and South Africa.
Amur falcons travel up to 22,000 km in a year, in one of the longest migration routes of all birds.
Amur Falcon (Falco Amurensis).
Image by Alastair Rae, from Wikipedia.
CC BY-SA.
Last month a group of activists (Ramki Sreenivasan from Conservation India, Shashank Dalvi, Bano Haralu, Rokohebi Kuotsu) travelled to Nagaland to check out information that thousands of falcons were being hunted annually on the banks of the Doyang reservoir during their passage through that region.
They accompanied a hunting group and documented the massacre:
The Amurs spend the day on the transmission wires (almost entirely inaccessible to hunters) and descend to forested patches along the banks of the reservoir to roost (see map).
The hunters ruthlessly exploit this particular behavior and set-up huge fishing nets (30-40m long, 10-12m tall) all over the roosting sites.
Birds get caught in the nets in large numbers. These birds get tangled in the nets while they come to roost during late evenings or when they leave the roost early in the morning.
The nets were permanent and the hunters come every morning to remove the trapped birds.
The nets were observed over the entire roosting area giving virtually no safe area for the birds.
Branches and paths were cleared to set up the nets.
Here is a video of the terrible proceedings (warning: graphic images):
The Amur Falcon Massacre, Doyang, Nagaland from Conservation India on Vimeo.
Now the shocking figures:
Each hunting group had set-up at least 10 nets.
On an average, 18 birds (18.30, n=23) were caught per net; hence each group catches about 180 birds per day.
This was confirmed with interviews with hunters.
We were also informed that about 60-70 hunting groups operate every day.
This means during the peak migration about 12,000 to 14,000 birds are caught everyday.
Each bird is sold door-to-door in nearby villages as a fresh food for a price of about Rs. 25 ($0.5).
Reports say local villagers can earn a few thousand rupees by selling the smoked Amur falcons.
It may be noted that Amur killing is illegal and banned by the local authorities since 2010.
This story went viral and news quickly spread around the world shocking many people.
There were a number of petitions online.
Soon other popular sites like National Geographic highlighted the issue and called for a global solution.
National Geographic commented:
The local people filmed by Conservation India catching Amur falcons, breaking their wings, sorting them, smoking them, and trading in them, cannot possibly enjoy this annual activity and do this purely for money and trade goods.
Amur Falcons being extracted from the net by hunters.
Screenshot from the video by Conservation India.
Birdlife International wrote:
The recent trapping and slaughter appears to have been taking place on an ‘industrial scale’ and unless stopped will clearly have a devastating affect on the birds’ global population at these unsustainable levels.
The site also confirms that with the help of their advocacy the following happened:
The Honourable Minister (for environment and forests), Miss Jayanthi Natarajan personally intervened and The Indian Forest Department and District Administration also acted fast to destroy nets and release several still-captive falcons.
The sale of falcons has now been stopped and at least one person has already been jailed.
However, hunters in Nagaland has defied the ban for many years and it may happen again in future if the behaviors of the local hunters are not changed.
The Chief Wildlife Warden, Nagaland, Dimapur stated in a press note:
Seizing and releasing of the birds from the possession of the offenders did not discourage them but rather, they resented and rebelled against the action taken and continued their offence.
The press note also talks about education and awareness campaign for the local villagers and stakeholders as a future course of action.
According to latest news the State department of forest, ecology, environment and wildlife has directed district forest officers (DFOs) of Mokokchung, Zunheboto and Wokha districts to immediately ban the act of capturing and killing of Amur Falcon.
Bogdan Draganescu comments at the Conservation India post:
Just because these birds are numerous and are not on the verge of extinction, does not mean they are food for humans. animals should be respected not only as individuals but also as groups and societies. just as a flock of birds is. a living entity and a result of evolution of life. this is what we have to respect and conserve.
Pardon Granted to Police Officers Convicted of Torture in Spain · Global Voices
On July 27, 2006, Romanian citizen Lucian Paduraru and his pregnant wife left their Barcelona home when five men approached the couple and attacked Paduraru, beating him viciously.
The five men were members of the Catalan police force Mossos d’Esquadra , but never identified themselves to the couple.
The officers had mistaken Paduraru for a notoriously dangerous mugger.
Paduraru was arrested and taken to the police station in Les Corts where the beating not only continued, but worsened to include threats, insults, and even inserting the barrel of a gun into his mouth.
It was only when one of the mossos realized security cameras monitored the room that the beating stoped.
The tragedy turned graver still with the realization that Paduraru is a hemophiliac.
This case served as one of the examples in Amnesty International's Spain: Adding insult to injury report about police violence in Spain.
Cameras capture the mossos beating a detainee in the Les Corts police station.
Photo from the blog «Chorizos ibéricos»
The five mossos faced charges of torture, personal injury and illegal detention and were tried in Barcelona's main court.
Three officers received a six year and seven month sentence each, one received a two year and three month sentence and the fifth received only a fine for abuse.
In an appeal to the Supreme Court, the sentences were reduced and granted a suspension pending the final outcome of the police investigation for the pardon the mossos requested.
In February 2012, the government granted the first pardon claiming "subsequent police investigations" provided "new and valuable information in relation to the facts of the case."
They also took into account the officers' personal records with the department as well as "the mounting support and general backing for the pardon."
The pardon further reduced the prison times, to two years, which coupled with their lack of prior offenses exempted the officers from their return to prison.
In addition, their banning from public office was also substituted for a two year suspension.
In spite of this, the Court made the unusual mandate that the officers fulfill their prison time, citing social outrage and the threat the officers posed to society.
In response, the mossos filed their second appeal.
Yet a few days ago, the Spanish government, ignoring public opinion, granted the officers' second appeal, commuting their prison time to a mere fine of 7,200 euros (roughly $9,350) to be paid 10 euro "installments" over two years.
This secondary pardon has enraged the public, who has widely interpreted the government's action as a clear siding with the impunity and brutality that blatantly violated fundamental human rights.
On Twitter, the hashtags #indulto and #justiciadeespaña became the trending topics the afternoon of the announcement.
Abraham Escobar of #14N and Gloria Marcos shared their indignation:
@abraham_escobar: The mossos' pardon is disgraceful.
This political system is broken.
Injustice is legalized and impunity rewarded.
‏@gloriamarcosmar: Gano Ping freed, torturers pardoned, the #PP promotes police brutality.
What country do we live in? #JusticiaDeEspaña
Ricardo Sixto criticized the Ministry of Justice's recent initiatives:
@Rsixtoiglesias: Spain: it pardons torturers and uses fines as a means of justice.
There is no rule of law. http://www.publico.es/espana/446355/
This pardon sheds light on the reality of what has been happening for years.
Spaniards are beginning to realize that the pardon, a mechanism intended to humanize justice, has been used extensively by the government to overturn the sentences of offenders in close proximity to power.
Ignacio Escobar explains as much in his article "The pardon: A daily abuse of power":
we are one of the Western countries whose government abuses most this arbitrary prerogative.
Since 1977 we have granted 17,620 pardons, according to the BOE .
Among those pardoned are the best of each house: the leaders of the 23-F coup , the GAL terrorists , corrupt politicians, depraved judges, big businesses, fraudulent bankers, drug traffickers...
This averages to 480 each year.
Zapatero granted 3,226 during his two years while Aznar —national record holder— nearly doubled this number with 5,916 pardons.
By comparison, George W. Bush granted only 200 pardons in eight years in the United States, a country seven times the size of Spain
Nearly 200 judges united to sign a declaration of dissent against the mossos' pardon.
The following are excerpts from the press release:
A pardon assumes an act in violation of human dignity whose responsibility in the persecution of said acts of torture falls on the State or the hands of its agents.
Torture is one of the worst possible ways in which human dignity is violated.
This dignity is the foundation of a constitutional order.
The European Court of Human Rights has condemned Spain for not investigating these acts.
When the Justice acts, investigates and condemns, the Government pardons.
It then becomes challenging to explain such behavior before the European Court.
The Government's decision is unbecoming of a democratic system of law, illegitimate, and ethically unaffordable.
what cannot prevail is the belief that other powers can assume certain faculties that are not theirs just because the constitution grants them to the state of Spain; the pardon is not a right of the judiciary but a faculty of the executive power.
But there is still hope that this pardon will count for something, as Ixaiac writes in a Huffington Post article:
Yesterday the SUP , today 200 judges.
Maybe something is changing.
But for most, the change comes too late.
Hopefully more and more eyes are being opened to the constant abuse of power.
Let's waste no time in restoring justice to our society.
Spain: Young Emigrants Have "Spirit of Adventure" · Global Voices
This article is part of our special news coverage Europe in Crisis. A few days ago, “Marina del Corral” was one of the most popular topics on Twitter.
Del Corral, who has entered the spotlight after statements which set the social networks alight with indignant messages, is a high-ranking official in the Ministry of Employment and Social Security , specifically, the Secretary General of Immigration and Emigration.
The Secretary General opined that emigration rates among Spanish youth were not due solely to the crisis currently confronting the country, but also "why not say it; to young people's drive for adventure".
Spanish Youth; emigrants or adventurers?
Image from the Lo que no pasa blog.
As would be expected, the Twittersphere wasted little time in responding, with hashtags like #espírituaventurero ("spirit of adventure") and #NoNosVamosNosEchan ("We're not leaving; they're throwing us out") receiving hundreds of comments, mere hours after the statements came to light.
Comments such as these, by @Haannnssss, 08181@ and Alvaro Velasco (@alvaro_velasco):
I heard that Marina del Corral is writing the script to the next Indiana Jones: "In Search of the Lost Job"
Marina del Corral, Secretary General of Emigration.
The Spirit of Adventure is going to the Pyrenees to do extreme sports.
Not grafting in some fast food restaurant in Berlin.
Nolesvotes recalls that the recent evictions have already led to several suicides:
Marina del Corral says that the Spanish people are emigrating because of their spirit of adventure and that people who got evicted and jumped off the balcony were doing balconing .
César states that, with each passing day, the government seems more and more distant from the realities facing the people:
The unemployed are buying plasma screens and the young people are leaving Spain because of their spirit of adventure.
The Spanish Government, with its feet firmly on the ground.
Tweeters (@whoanrubi), Яubén Sánchez (@rubensancheztw), Ciudadano Libre (@SuperTTuitero) y SorriSorrilla (@SorriSorrilla) take a humorous approach:
Sign: "If you finish your degree in Spain you have 3 ways out: by land, by sea or by air".
Image from kaosenlared.net
Secretary of Immigration: "We Spanish are emigrating because of our spirit of adventure."
Of course, and people have surgery in order to get to know themselves better on the inside.
From the creators of "Not cuts, but reforms" comes "the crisis isn't the cause of emigration, it's the spirit of adventure"
Marina del Corral's only brain cell has the spirit of adventure, too. Subsaharian Africans cross the strait in open boats because they like extreme rafting" - Marina del Corral.
Map of Spanish emigration in the 21st century.
Image from the blog "Periodismo con Gafas"
A group of Spanish emigrants in Switzerland published an open letter to Marina del Corral in which they explain the arduous conditions that many emigrants end up in once they leave Spain:
To the positive stories of those who do find work must be added the stories of mothers and fathers who leave their children behind, of Spanish citizens who end up sleeping in their cars or in shelters after failing to find work and having no more savings left, who can't speak the language but, despite it all, they have no other option than to leave, stories of failure and returning home to a situation even worse than it was before they left.
The Government to which you belong has cut by 60% the funding to associations and foundations which provide social and medical assistance to Spanish emigrants of limited means, it has cut the budget for the General Directorate of Emigration by 14.5% and faced the embarrassment of seeing the President of the General Council of Spanish Citizens Living Abroad state that "Laws are like women.
They are there to be violated." what we demand is a little respect towards the several thousands of honest Spanish men and women who have not left our country to see how the wind blows elsewhere, or to have an enriching experience and simply return when we tire of it.
We left our country by force and with a heavy heart, because we have no way of making a living at home, whether we have a basic or an advanced education.
'The Economist' Accused of Hacking by Bangladesh's War Crimes Tribunal · Global Voices
The International Crimes Tribunal (ICT) is an ongoing tribunal in Bangladesh that was set up to investigate and provide justice regarding the war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide committed during the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971.
On 6 December, 2012 the war crimes tribunal accused The Economist magazine of hacking and asked it to explain how it got emails and heard Skype conversations between Presiding Judge Mohammed Nizamul Huq and Mr. Ahmed Ziauddin, a war crimes expert of Bangladeshi origin living in Brussels, Belgium.
The two individuals have known each other for 25 years.
The court ruling accused the Economist of “interfering into the work of the tribunal and violating the privacy of its presiding judge” as the magazine contacted the judge directly about the conversations.
On 8 December, 2012, The Economist responded with a blog post where it claimed that it had "heard 17 hours of recorded telephone conversations and seen over 230 e-mails between the two men".
They also published a short account of their dealings with Mr Huq and Mr Ahmed.
The situation escalated when a local daily Amar Desh published some transcript of the conversations.
That material was sourced from a 'foreign country', the report suggests.
Amnesty for 1971 war criminals
The Bangladesh government claims up to three million people were killed and between 200,000 and 400,000 women were raped by Pakistani Army and local collaborators in one of the worst genocides in the history of mankind.
According to a tri-patriate agreement between Bangladesh-Pakistan-India in 1974, 195 Pakistani prisoners of war were handed over to Pakistan from Bangladesh pending trial and Pakistan never prosecuted them.
A War Crimes Fact Finding Committee revealed that the local collaborators of the Pakistani army were involved in at least 53 types of crimes.
Among the local collaborators were a large number of members of Jamaat-e-Islami, one of the largest Islamic parties of the subcontinent, who opposed Bangladesh and sided with Pakistan during the war.
In an effort towards national reconciliation the Government announced amnesty (pdf) to those who had been convicted or accused of offences under the Collaborators Order (1972), except those accused of murder, rape or arson.
Later all prosecutions were stopped and all the accused were released leaving a scar on the society who believe that justice was not done.
Girls carry placards of painted pictures of alleged war criminals demanding a quick trial.
Image by Rehman Asad.
Copyright Demotix (30/11/2012)1971 war crimes and amnesty revisited in 2010
The ruling Bangladesh Awami League formed the ICT on 25 March 2010 by amending some aspects of the International Crimes (Tribunals) Act 1973 of Bangladesh and the trial of war criminals was one of their election pledges.
The tribunal is currently trying 10 individuals including several Jamaat leaders on charges of arson, rape and other atrocities committed during the 1971 war.
The ICT has been criticized by a number of human rights organization for certain flaws in the tribunal, they raised concerns about fair and impartial proceedings.
On the other hand civil society in Bangladesh accused Jamaat-e-Islami for spending millions of dollars for lobbying against the ICT in several countries including USA and the UK.
Jamaat is also conducting street protests across the country to stop the trial of their leaders, often using violent means such as attacks against the police.
The Economist's involvement in the Tribunal
The blogosphere erupted with reactions after the news that The Economist magazine had been accused of hacking emails and Skype conversations between Presiding Judge Mohammed Nizamul Huq and war crimes expert Mr. Ahmed Ziauddin.
Aunarjo Sangeet asked:
Why was the private conversation of a judge recorded/hacked or published without his consent?
The respected court should certainly ask why.
Hacking is a punishable offence in Bangladesh (as well as in UK).
The question is how long were they active?
How much infringement of privacy was done by Jamaat hackers?
This investigative post reveals the suspicious activity of a pro-Jamaat Facebook page titled 'Awami Tribunal' which has been publishing the audio and videos of the Skype conversations hosted in Facebook and YouTube long before the local newspaper published it.
David Bergman, a journalist covering the ICT questions in his own blog "Would Economist publication of Tribunal e-mails be in breach of Editors Code?"
He comments:
So whether or not the Economist would be in breach of the Editors code in the publication of these e-mail communication depends upon whether there is a strong enough public interest in their publication, and that depends upon how serious the level of impropriety the published communication shows.
He adds in another post:
There are many in the government, and amongst its supporters, who think that the Economist has it in for the Awami League government.
This is principally because of an article which claimed that the Awami League government won the last elections with 'bags of Indian cash and advice' (without putting forward any evidence).
It has also been consistently critical of the war crimes trials.
The former Jamaat chief Gulam Azam is taken to the Dhaka Central Jail as per the order of the tribunal.
Image by Firoz Ahmed.
Copyright Demotix (11/1/2012)Bloggers also discussed whether there is enough public interest in the disclosed conversations which dealt with mainly personal affairs and some discussions on the trial.
Pritom Das comments :
Both Ahmed Ziauddin and Ziaul Haque Nasim suggested that the trial should not proceed hastily as per government's request, proper time should be given.
They have talked about a 'fair trial' a number of times.
Arif Jebtik writes :
Dr. Ziauddin is not a political activist or leader, rather an internationally reputed lawyer with specialization in war crimes.
If he engages in such conversation, that would only to help maintain the quality of the tribunal - so he should be commended.
The long transcript published in the Daily Amar Desh was filled with personal affairs.
The both men of law discussed different issues of trials of home and abroad.
I don't see any discrepancy.
It remains to be seen whether the Economist will publish the story and whether this will have any impact on the Tribunal.
Voting for the Seven Natural Wonders of Africa · Global Voices
An annual competition has been launched for the public to vote for the seven best natural wonders of Africa, with the voting currently underway.
The competition is organized by global grassroots endeavor Seven Natural Wonders and at this point includes 12 sites from across the African continent.
Discover the shortlist and other suggested contenders which didn't make the cut this year.
The Okavango Delta, Botswana
Hippos bathing in the Okavango Delta, Botswana, the world's largest inland delta by John on Wikipedia CC-license-by
The Okavango Delta is the world's largest inland delta, created from the rains that fill the Okavango River.
The Namibian government has plans to build a hydropower station which would regulate the Okavango's flow, but environmentalists fear that this project could destroy most of the fauna and flora in the Delta.
The Red Sea Reef, Egypt, Sudan and Eritrea
The Red Sea is a seawater inlet of the Indian Ocean, lying between Africa and Asia.
Its Reef stretches over 1,240 miles along the coast of Egypt, Sudan, and Eritrea and contains more than 1,100 species of fish.
Anthia goldfish in the Red Sea from Wikimedia commons.
Image on Wikimedia Commons (CC BY-SA-3.0)
Mount Kenya is the highest mountain in Kenya and the second highest in Africa, after Kilimanjaro.
It was covered by an ice cap for thousands of years.
The Mount Kenya ecosystem provides water directly for over two million people.
The park receives over 16,000 visitors per year.
The Avenue of the Baobabs, Madagascar
Local people on the Avenue of the Baobabs, Morondava, Madagascar.
The Avenue of the Baobabs is located between Morondava and Belon'i Tsiribihina in the Menabe region in western Madagascar.
Baobab trees, up to 800 years old, stand about 30 meters in height and this particular species is endemic to Madagascar.
The site was present in the news recently because it was victim of a wild fire that burnt down newly planted trees around the giant trees.
The Stone Forest of Bamaraha, Madagascar
Tsingy de Bemaraha Strict Nature Reserve in Madagascar.
Image on Wikipedia (CC BY-3.0).
Tsingy de Bemaraha is a nature reserve located near the western coast of Madagascar in the Melaky Region.
This National Park is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and the main attraction is the stone forest that is composed of limestone needles originating from erosion patterns from groundwater and winds.
Zuma Rock, Nigeria
Zuma Rock near Abuja by Jeff Attaway on Flickr (CC-BY-2.0).
Zuma Rock is a 725 meter high monolith found in Nigeria on the road out of Abuja.
Its nickname 'Gateway to Abuja' is derived from this road.
The Peak of Furnace, Réunion Island
Eruption at the Peak, April 2007 on FlickR by zatiqs (CC BY-NC-SA).
Le Piton de la Fournaise (The Peak of Furnace) is a shield volcano on the eastern side of Réunion island in the Indian Ocean.
It is one of the most active volcanoes in the world.
The Aldabra Atoll, Seychelles
Aldabra Island, Seychelles on FlickR by Johny Shaw (CC-BY-2.0).
Aldabra is the world's second largest coral atoll and forms part of the Seychelles.
Aldabra is almost entirely free of human interference and is home to the world's largest population of giant tortoises.
Mount Kilimanjaro, Tanzania
Kibo on Mt Kilimanjaro by Chris 73 (CC-NC-BY).
Kilimanjaro is the highest mountain in Africa and the highest freestanding mountain in the world at 5,895 meters.
The current shrinking and thinning of Kilimanjaro's ice field is similar to other glacier retreat in mid-to-low latitudes across the globe.
At the current rate, Kilimanjaro is expected to become ice-free some time between 2022 and 2033.
Ngorongoro Crater, Tanzania
A young male lion at the hunt in Ngorongoro Crater by Brocken Inaglory on Wikimedia (CC-BY-3.0).
The Ngorongoro Crater is a large, unbroken, unflooded volcanic caldera located in the west of Arusha in the Crater Highlands area of Tanzania.
The crater plays host to almost every individual species of wildlife in East Africa, with an estimated 25,000 animals within the crater.
The Serengeti Migration, Tanzania
Wildebeest crossing the river by Stefan Swanepoel in Wikipedia (CC-BY-3.0).
The Serengeti migration is the longest and largest overland migration in the world.
Each year, the great wildebeest migration begins in the Ngorongoro area of the southern Serengeti of Tanzania in January to March, when the calving season begins; some 750,000 zebra precede the migration of 1.2 million wildebeest.
The Sahara Desert
Camels in Guelta d'Archei, Ennedi, north-east Chad.
Image on Wikipedia (CC-BY-2.0).
The Sahara Desert is the largest hot desert in the world.
The desert encompasses, at least in part, the countries of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Western Sahara, Sudan, and Tunisia.
The southern border of the Sahara is marked by a band of semi-arid savanna called the Sahel.
Bloggers' suggestions
A number of natural wonders were omitted from the shortlist, so a few bloggers have added their own suggestions via their blogs.
A slight controversy was the fact that a few countries were featured several times while others were not mentioned at all, despite having worthy candidates.
The Victoria Falls, Zambia and Zimbabwe
The Victoria Falls at the border of Zambia and Zimbabwe is already selected as one of the seven natural wonders of the world.
Swimming at the edge of Victoria Falls in a naturally formed safe pool, accessed via Livingstone Island.
Image on Wikimedia Commons, released into public domain by Ian Restall.
Blyde River Canyon, South Africa
The Blyde River Canyon is located in Mpumalanga and forms the northern part of the Drakensberg escarpment.
It is 16 miles (26 kilometers) in length and is on average around 2,500 feet (762 meters) deep.
The Canyon consists mostly of red sandstone.
The Weeping Face of Nature located in Blyde River Canyon.
Image by Ptosio on Wikipedia (CC-BY-3.0).
Feel free to add any sites that you feel were omitted in the selection process in the comments section below.
"How Are You in Bamako ?"
A Conversation with Awa in Mali · Global Voices
Thai Activist Editor Gets 11-Year Jail Term for 'Insulting' King · Global Voices
The packed courtroom in Bangkok, Thailand was in shock following the Criminal Court's verdict of 11 years imprisonment for labor rights activist and editor of Voice of Taksin, Somyot Prueksakasemsuk for lese majeste (royal insult) crimes.
The shock was both regarding the guilty verdict, but even more so because of the severity of the sentence.
While the maximum punishment for violating lese majeste laws is 15 years, previous cases involved shorter prison sentences.
Somyot was not so lucky and was slapped with 5 years sentence for each crime, two counts in total, plus an additional year for the now cancelled 1-year suspended sentence he received in 2009 (for a different charge).
Somyot is escorted from the Criminal Court after being convicted to 11 years in prison.
Photo by Lillian Suwanrumpha, Copyright @Demotix (1/23/2013)
This is a real disappointment for Somyot, who was reportedly optimistic that he would be found innocent because he believed he did not commit any crime.
Prachatai reportsthat Somyot's friend inside the Thai prison, where Somyot has been detained for more than 20 months, revealed that Somyot was hoping the Court would uphold 'justice' and 'do the right thing.'
His lawyer will appeal against the sentence and seek bail.
Somyot's optimism stems from the nature of his crimes.
Somyot was the editor of a political magazine, Voice of Taksin (banned in 2010), which published two articles in 2010 that was deemed to have violated lese majeste laws.
He was formally charged in 2011, refused bail 12 times and finally convicted on January 23, 2013.
The articles were published under pseudonyms and made no direct mention of the monarchy.
However, the court believed that it was clear to whom the articles were referring and that as a senior editor, Somyot should have known full well about the ramification of their publication yet he did them any way.
"The court's procedure showed the articles which Mr Somyot published did not contain academic views of the monarchy.
The articles were insulting in nature and caused damage to the King," Judge Thawee said.
The verdict received numerous criticism from rights groups in Thailand, international news agencies and international rights groups.
Inside Thailand, however, the news received a rather sober coverage from mainstream media.
Thai netizens' reaction to Somyot's verdict was, as in previous cases, divided.
Some argued that Somyot got what he deserved because he continued to be outspoken against Article 112
mitrapaap says in the Bangkok Post's web board:
He was out there on bail.
He perfectly knew the risks of not keeping his mouth shut.
One has to make his choice based on the current laws not matter whether you like them or not.
You don't change laws by breaking them.
ploydonut added:
Thailand is good country, and bad people who insult our country, institutions, and do the bad crime should go to jail for long time.
Khon Thai Hua Jai Singh wrote on Manager's web board:
To those belonging to the anti-monarchy movement - if you think that Thailand is not a good place to live because we have the monarchy, then leave our beloved country, the country that reveres our monarch.
Or if you believe that you have been duped by convicted felon Mr.....
Now it's time to change your mind.
It's not too late for this society and your family to forgive you for what you've done.
You must choose your path.
On the contrary, rights groups both in Thailand and abroad condemned the verdict and some argued that Somyot received such harsh punishment because he was also an activist who advocated for the reform of Article 112
10 years is too harsh of a punishment for a person who has a different opinion than others.
Respecting different opinions and values is something our society needs to learn," argues a Thai activist.
Luk Chaona Thai wrote on the Prachatalk web board:
The guilty verdict for Somyot is an imprisonment for free thinking.
It's natural for human beings to have diverse views on issues and one must be able to live in a society where people have different views.
The biggest disappointment, although not surprising, is the null reaction from the Yingluck government.
After all this was the pro-Thaksin magazine which has bee transformed into a Red Shirt (closely allied with former Prime Minister Thaksin, the brother of incumbent Prime Minister Yingluck) publication, Red Power.
Acting UDD Chair, Thida Thavornseth, was at Somyot's trial and several Red Shirt groups have organized activities in support of the Free Somyot campaign.
Yet, as one suspects, the ruling Pheu Thai party has no intention of intervening in this case.
As Professor Duncan McCargo argues:
Yingluck Shinawatra is performing a delicate balancing act to preserve the political deal which keeps her in office - and doing so involves keeping the country’s conservative institutions, including the palace, the judiciary and the military onside.
Taiwan's Nuclear-free New Year's Wish · Global Voices
Every year, Taiwanese gather around Taipei 101, the tallest building in Taiwan to see fireworks and celebrate the coming of the new year.
This year, the celebration was very special as popular singers, environmental and youth activists worked together to present a nuclear-free homeland as Taiwanese people's common wish for 2013.
Singers performed in new year's eve parties and sang anti-nuclear songs.
Environment groups organized a joint signature campaign to build consensus among Taiwanese for a nuclear-free policy.
The most eye-catching action was delivered by a number of youth activists under the Citizens No Nuke network, who projected an anti-nuclear sign on Taipei 101 during the annual fireworks.
They uploaded their action to Youtube afterwards.
Below is an explanation of their action in the group's website :
Taiwan bears critical risk as two nuclear power plants, NPP1 and NPP2, which the seismic resistance coefficient is estimated evidently less than that of Fukushima Daiichi NPP, are located tightly alongside the active fault zone of the volcanic arc…According to nuclear energy researcher Koide Hiroaki, once the radioactive materials of NPP4 Taiwan are released, the exposure to the Northern region will result in 30,000 death immediately and 7 million residents with chronic diseases or cancer.
The radioactive material will spread out through sea current and atmosphere, bringing the disaster to neighboring countries, and eventually global-wise.
Every person in the world inevitably shares the potential risk and consequences of nuclear power technology.
Regardless of the debates and anxiety from the society, or the technical issues of safety and management, the officials of the government haven’t clarified the problems without the determination of self-responsibility.
The discontent of the situation has reached a critical point.
It is time to end the technopoly… With no pains or bloods split, we declare that Taiwan as a democratic country, our will not to be dominated by the privileged 1%.
And without the responsibility of our government to the beings of the Earth, the 99% will join together and exercise for their right.
We are the 99%, and you will see us in the end.
Anti-nuclear sign projected on Taipei 101.
Image from Citizens Nonuke.
Public Prosecutor Seeks Flogging for Saudi Women Protesters · Global Voices
Anonymous activism group @e3teqal (which translates to "detainment") reported that force was used when women and children were arrested :
@e3teqal: Urgent: The assault on women and children when they were transferred by force was documented by a pedestrian.
The women surrounded by police forces on Saturday, via @ImaQh
When the women and children were arrested, their relatives headed to al-Safra Prison near Buraida, where they were said to be held.
Riot police surrounded the place, but the sit-in continued overnight.
In the morning, the prince of Qassim province, where Buraida is, issued an order to release some of the protesters, transfer others to Riyadh (including at least one child) and continue to hold the rest in Buraida.
At 2:06 PM, one of those taking part in the sit-in tweeted:
@m44au: We were surrounded.
The men are fifty and the women are ten.
Pray for us, and come to help.
Later that day, some of the protesters were released after pledging that they will not protest again.
One of them tweeted:
@majeed06: A very old man was crying a lot, when the interrogator asked him, "What do you want?"
He answered: "I do not want my sons, I just want my daughters"
Three of the women arrested in the original protest were brought to court in Buraida yesterday morning, January 9, in an unprecedented timely manner.
The trial was secret, and the judge insisted that only one man should accompany each of the women.
Activists and relatives were kept out by court security.
The public prosecutor said that the women should be flogged for protesting:
@abdulllah1406: The public prosecutor Ibrahim al-Dihish asked the judge to jail the detainees and to flog them and he insisted on that.
@abdulllah1406: The judge asked the women several times to apologize for protesting, but they refused.
@abdulllah1406: One of the detainees said: I swear to God that even if you sentence us to fifteen years in jail, we will not apologize.
We are demanding our legitimate right.
The judge ruled that the women were guilty, but the five days they spent in detainment were enough.
The rest of the women protesters, including the ones transferred to Riyadh, remain under arrest without trial.
Tajikistan Remains 'Hell for Gays' · Global Voices
Gay issues are a taboo subject in Tajikistan.
Although the country decriminalized homosexuality fifteen years ago, there is still very little tolerance toward sexual minorities within its conservative society.
In addition to homophobic attitudes, those rare individuals who dare to disclose their 'unconventional' sexual orientation become easy targets of physical and psychological abuse, including from police (pdf).
As a result, the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community remains "one of the most closed and secretive parts of Tajik society".
A recent discussion in the country's blogosphere offers a rare glimpse into what it means to be gay in Tajikistan and how the country's people view members of the LGBT community.
'It means PAIN...'
The discussion started after blogger Rishdor wrote about a violent incident at his university.
Students there found out that one of their classmates was a gay.
Rishdor writes :
For some reason, everyone took it as a personal offence.
It was decided that the should be taught a lesson.
About eight of our classmates beat him up in the bathroom.
They beat him up badly; there was a lot of blood on his face and clothes...
Among many other comments under the blog, one reader suggests that the incident reflects a widespread popular attitude towards gays in Tajikistan:
I think it is not the first time .
As long as he is in Tajikistan, he will continue facing this attitude.
Every day.
And if he goes to for help, they will kick him away, ridiculing the guy; he will face scornful attitude wherever he goes, and a crowd of young people will always be after him, everywhere.
I am truly sorry for him.
Another reader, Shakha, asks :
Why does this attitude toward gays persists in our country?
Being gay is no longer considered a crime; the state does not officially punish people for this.
And the modern science has proven that homosexuality is not some kind of a psychiatric aberration which can be treated with medicines (or through stoning or lashing)...
Responding to Rishdor's post, another blogger, Drugoi (Different) writes :
Do you know what it means to be gay in Tajikistan?
Nothing worse that this can be imagined!..
BEING GAY MEANS BEING UNAPPRECIATED!
By everyone.
It means being doomed to loneliness and indifference towards you, even from your own family and friends; their scorn and pity about you being the way you are. their attempts to convince you, or convince themselves, that this is just a disease and that it should be treated as soon as possible.
It means PAIN, SUFFERING, INSULTS, LONELINESS, HUMILIATION.
In another response post titled "Leave Gays Alone", blogger Fragaria urges readers:
Stop interfering in other people's lives...
Learn to treat human beings as human beings, rather than as girls, boys, or gays...
Accept people the way they have become.
Be tolerant.
Why does it matter to you whether a person prefers to have sex with men or women?
'Hell for gays'
However, reader comments to this latest blog indicate that members of the LGBT community are not anyway near to gaining widespread acceptance in Tajikistan.
An anonymous reader comments :
Whether we live in the Middle Ages or in the present time, what is forbidden is forbidden.
One should not her faith by recognizing these ill people as part of society...
Another blogger, Teocrat, argues that accepting the rights of gays is similar to accepting the rights of zoophiles and pedophiles.
He also suggests that "if gays want to be treated as everyone else, they should behave as everyone else".
Blogger Bachai Sako goes as far as denying gay men a place in Tajik society:
Homosexuals are neither Tajiks nor Muslims.
They are ill people, or animals.
Under these comments, Mustafo writes :
I have not had a chance to meet homosexuals in our country.
But, judging by these comments, Tajikistan is hell for gays.
Spain: An Airport Without Planes? · Global Voices
Airports rarely make for important news stories, aside from some sort of aerial disaster or because personnel strikes turn them into a purgatory for fliers.
Spain, however, has an airport with its own star, which has made both print and online headlines since its opening: Castellón airport .
This airport was conceived, like so many other absurd public works, in the last decade at the start of the economic crisis, and was opened with fanfare by the then-president of the Council of Castellón, Carlos Fabra, in March 2011, weeks before the municipal elections, despite the fact that facility had no scheduled flights.
In fact, they did not even have an air navigation permit.
1500 people attended the event, including Francisco Camps, President at the time of the Generalitat Valenciana, who left office after being charged with bribery .
The opening had some borderline grotesque moments that were captured in this fun video from El Intermedio , La Sexta's abrasive program.
Adding to the list of nonsense that surrounds this airport is an error in construction that disables the runway and landing strips and forces them to fix it before it is even debuted, in addition to the construction of a hideously monumental sculpture — an homage to Fabra, according to its artist — in the access roundabout, which has cost 300,000 euros and has not withstood the humidity of the area.
Castellón Airport.
From the Blog #La Campana De La Vela.
The airport, although not operational, has considerable annual costs, as this article from elplural.com breaks down: Oxidized stains on the statue that presides over the entrance to the airport.
Juan García Salas, General Director of Aerocas , charged 88,104 euros in 2011, a quantity significantly higher than the 84,200 euros they grossed in 2010. (...)
There's still more.
Castellón airport's operating costs amounted to a total of 6,484,935 euros in 2011.
Of this total amount, 5,092,596.22 euros were spent on a portion of publicity, propaganda, and public relations; that is to say, more than 78%.
Of the remainder, 918,663 euros went to independent professional services: 368,865.49 euros to the salaries of its seven employees; 223,074 euros work done by other companies; 129,430 to other services; 23,412 to leases and royalties and 23,006 to bank services or something similar, among other calculations.
Carlos Fabra , the main promoter of this airport and a People's Party politician, belongs to a family with a long political legacy in Castellón.
He was council president of this province from 1995 to 2011, a post he left after being charged with crimes of bribery and influence peddling in 2010.
He is also the father of Andrea Fabra, the PP deputy that became infamous a few months ago for yelling "Fuck them!" at the Congress while President Rajoy announced new cuts to unemployment benefits.
A few days ago, Fabra himself, now that he presides over Aerocas, announced that a venture capital business group has made an offer to purchase Castellón airport for 200 million euros.
The operation, although it is not nearly as beneficial as the Aerocas managers make it out to be, is still good news, given that its maintenance costs.
Nevertheless, the news has surprised many people, since apparently the airport is a completely useless infrastructure, and it is worth wondering why anyone would want to take it on.
As such, Twitter created the hashtag #NuevosUsosAeropuertoDeCastellón (#NewUsesCastellónAirport), which became a trending topic on January 10, and netizens began coming up with very innovative ideas.
Eiryah Udhen and Eva opt for sports:
@Eiryah: Site of outstanding quality for the Champions League pitch
‏@evitalunera: After July 7, the San Fermín festival
Marina Segovia and David Antonio Tomico are more supportive of art:
@marinuxy_94: a school for sculptors of airport figures
@DTomico: Monument as an homage to solitude
jose melchor valero and Magnes are in favor of dedicating it to night life:
@ValNyx: Marijuana den.
At least someone will fly there AAAAHAHHAHAHAH
Mars with more air traffic than the Castellón airport.
Image from Cuánta Razón.
Gorka Zumalabe and ManuMillán make a sarcastic point:
@tormentad: And paralyze the airport's normal activity? Are you insane?
XD XD
‏@JordiDiaz71: We could actually use the airport, which is the one thing that seems will not be used in the end
Kuwaiti Twitter User Jailed for Two Years for Insulting Emir · Global Voices
Seven months after the sentencing a Twitter user to five years in jail for defaming the Emir of Kuwait, another Twitter user Ayyad Al-Harbi was sentenced this Monday to two years in jail for the same charge.
Al-Harbi wrote several tweets critical of the Emir and the oppression practiced against protesters.
According to the court order (published by Sabr online), the tweets Ayyad was prosecuted for contain the following lines:
- Damn any ruler who jails his people.
Damn any ruler that has more opposition than supporters.
- Your highness, the best unity between Kuwaitis happened in Erada square and you targeted it.
- What is left? no revolution, no development, no freedom, no dignity, no parliament, no voting, no protests, no objection, for God's sake, what are you doing to us?
- So I should either insult and accuse people of things with no proof and say it is freedom or I should say my account is hacked and get released?
- If you are not Kuwaiti, then you are from the Gulf.
You will face the oppression and tyranny and arrests with a bit of oil.
- The tyrant and oppressor should not be apologized to, he should fall down and be on trial and jailed and killed.
- Curse the state that does not stop its dogs from eating the dignity of its people just because they are opposing.
Al-Harbi was also charged for retweeting a poem by Iraqi poet Ahmed Matar critical of dictators.
The tweep also wrote a tweet when the Emir left to Jordan saying:
Since he left to Amman for fishing, the children sang for rain after the adults were singing "beating the people has become a norm."
Right after his sentence was announced, Al-Harbi tweeted his last tweet:
@ayyadQ8Q8: I love you, my country! Al-Harbi posted on the 6th of January that he is facing three charges: @ayyadQ8Q8: Tomorrow morning, the court verdict on my case will be made regarding charges made by the state security: defaming the Emir, spreading false news abroad, and misusing a cellphone.
Your prayers matter.
Twitter users from Kuwait and other countries wrote critically of having such a sentence that violates one's right to free speech.
Ayyad's friend Hussain Al-Shammari posted Ayyad's picture with a comment:
قبل يومين أخرج لي عياد الحربي السلاح الخاص الذي حُكم عليه بالسجن بسببه ، كان عبارة عن 140 حرف وأحلام ممتدة للسماء !"@Havana_H : Two days ago, Ayyad Al-Harbi showed me his special weapon which got him two years in jail.. it was 140 letters and dreams that reach the sky."
Sabr online newspaper posted a picture of Ayyad's Kuwaiti passport in reaction to those accusing him of being Saudi citizen:
Egyptian activist Gamal Eid commented in solidarity:
@gamaleid: Our friend and colleague Ayyad al-Harbi from Kuwait was with us tweeting until yesterday and has become now a new number in the list of prisoners of conscience.
Monther alhabeeb, from Kuwait, who was arrested before in a protest, wrote a tweet after Ayyad's sentence and about the other detainees in Kuwait Rashed Al-Enizi and Salam Al-Rujaib, who were arrested in the latest opposition rally, and Bedoon activist Abdulhakim Al-Fadhli:
@Montheralhabeeb: In every minute passing while you're in jail, you breathe your freedom.
Those minutes pass like hours for us as we taste grief.
Cuba Implements Long-Awaited Migration Reform · Global Voices
On January 14, 2013 Cuba's historic migration reform went into effect, which should make it much easier to leave and enter the country. According to the Havana Times, Cuban citizens can now apply for passports to travel out of the country for up to 24 months, without seeking special permission from the government.
In addition, the grounds for repatriation have been expanded. For years, leaving the country, whether temporarily or permanently, has been the subject of dozens of posts in the Cuban blogosphere. The implementation of the long-awaited migration reform could put an end to the emotionally tormenting decision to stay or to leave Cuba.
In August 2012, the author of "Los otros ojos de Eva" made reference to the "internationalist missions," government projects to provide aid to other countries, primarily in sectors such as education and health which also represent an economic relief for Cuban professionals.
However, Melisa Cordero also reminds us of the enormous human cost of years of separation for families:
The little girl is barely five years old and you approach her cradle at three o'clock in the morning and try to record her features in your memory.
The journey will be soon.
You will cross the Atlantic and you will miss her immediately, throughout every second and even in your dreams, and you'll think you see her every time an African child, black-skinned and dirty, approaches you during a consultation. (...)
Doubt will rush through your body, you are hesitant and your family: yes girl, go on, we'll look after her, and your husband with his sad face and without a word and with the fridge half empty and their needs beating your conscience.
The medical committee is wise, but you don't know whether, when the little girl grows up, she will thank you for the toys and the plasma TV and the microwave and the clothes she's got too many of, or whether she will reproach you for all the hours of absence.
In another article (which is fiction), the author narrates a father's departure from the port of Mariel:
My father left on a raft, a raft made from Styrofoam and cork, with tears at night, after the meal, when it was difficult to fall asleep with just a few grains of rice in your stomach.
My father departed from Mariel, he dragged the boat along the pavement and then along the street by the school and in front of the butchers which was on strike.
My father threw himself into the sea, he pushed himself over the waves and was lost on the horizon, leaving us with an empty place at the table and the hope that the saucepans would, very soon, be full once again.
My father left one afternoon, some time ago, maybe a little longer and we still haven't found out, exactly, in which part of the Caribbean to lay flowers.
Since January 14 2013, Cuban citizens will be able to apply for passports at the offices of the Identity Card and Population Registry as well as at Immigration and Naturalisation to travel out of the country without being required to seek permission from the government.
Offices of Immigration and Naturalisation during the first day of the migration reform.
Photo: courtesy of Jorge Luis Baños
According to a report from the Havana Times , which quotes the Office of Immigration and Naturalisation, a total of 195 sites have been set up for this purpose.
According to this digital magazine , "it is estimated that the historical reform will benefit a large number of Cubans who, as long as they can finance their journey and obtain a visa for the destination country, will be able to travel abroad with far greater ease."
However, "this will not imply a massive exodus from the island.
The vast majority of countries require an entry visa for citizens of the largest of the Antilles."
With regard to journeys towards the United States, an article published by the digital site Café Fuerte points out :
Cuba will allow its citizens to travel as emigrants and even to make use of the Cuban Adjustment Act (CAA) in the United States without losing their rights as residents of the island for a period of two years, a high-level government official announced.
But some citizens, amongst them elite athletes , will still have to seek permission to leave the country.
Moreover, the law includes a subsection which has been questioned by several bloggers.
Fernando Ravsberg, author of Cartas desde Cuba , points out :
Subsection "H", however, states that they will also not be able to travel "when for other reasons of public interest, the relevant authorities say so."
A legal curiosity which does not clearly establish what these "reasons" or "authorities" may be (...)
Such an ambiguity gives absolute power to civil servants over the citizenry.
The lack of teachers could be considered to be a reason of public interest and the Ministry in question may consider itself to be the relevant body to prevent a teacher from travelling.
However, the AP agency has published a report in which it reveals that "according to an anonymous informant, various hospital directors held a meeting on Saturday with the Ministry of Health, and were informed of a resolution which will allow the standardisation of travel for all sector personnel.”
In turn, Manuel Henrique Lagarde commented on the situation of Cuban blogger Yoani Sánchez:
At the exit of the offices of the Department of Immigration and Naturalisation in the municipality of Plaza de la Revolución in 17 and K in El Vedado, the blogger, in declarations made to the foreign press, confirmed that she had requested a new passport and that she had been informed that after 15 working days, the time it would take to produce the document, she could leave the country.
Hundreds of foreign media have reported the news and some users from other nations have celebrated the Cuban migration reform, although they point out :
The long-awaited removal of the obstacles imposed for decades on Cubans trying to leave their country came into force today, but with a high price, 100 dollars per passport, the most expensive in the region after Chile.
Cuban state television broadcast a programme with more details about the migration reform (in Spanish).
Tiptoeing Tradition, Cuba Welcomes the New Year · Global Voices
The year 2012, marked by the visit of Pope Benedict XVI to Cuba, Hurricane Sandy's trail of destruction, the controversial legal regulation of the public use of music, among other events, also made a mark on the island's blogosphere.
The celebration of Christmas in Cuba was also a reason for analysis in some blogs.
In his article 'La cultura de la Navidad' (The Culture of Christmas), Roberto Méndez compiles historical information about the evolution of this tradition on the island.
Until the late 60's of the last century (…) even if only a portion of the population was authentically Christian, it was common to celebrate that time with family (…) The Atheist orientation of the government from 1961 and, above all, the suspension of Christmas festivities around the harvest of 1970, converted Christmas into something almost secret. (…) With the advance of the 80's, certain official prohibitions were gradually relaxed, although Christmas arose in the ambiguous terrain of 'end-of-year festivities.'
At this time, Rosana Berjaga, in her blog Yo Me Mi… pero contigo, recounts the meaning of the Christmas tree for her nephew of 7 years.
Ernesto doesn't care about the defense of what is foreign.
My nephew can't understand what an imported tradition is, what subconscious consumption is, in his little six year-old head there isn't space to understand that the tradition of Christmas and those of Papa Noel and the Three Wise Men were imposed on us by economic colonialisation.
My nephew calls for a Christmas without snow because it's the time of the year when we all, as a family, decorate the enormous Christmas tree of my grandmother.
The Cuban city of Santiago, the main city affected in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, likewise celebrated
Christmas symbols in the streets of Havana, Cuba.
(Photo: Courtesy of Jorge Luis Baños)
This festival originated from when Sir Ángel Moya, known by the santigueros (habitants of Santiago) as 'Chichi', 'thought up the idea of giving the city the first Cuban flag to officially wave in the municipal building, when the free and sovereign republic was definitively proclaimed.'
The extension of Internet access was also a topic that set the end-of-year agenda in the Cuban blogosphere.
According to an article published in the official daily, Granma, the fibre optic cable between Cuba and Venezuela should have gone into operation in July 2011.
This investment, of 70 millon dollars, would have “multiplied the transmission speed of information, images and the voice that Cuba possesses today by 3000 times.”
At the end of 2012, for Luis Rondón Paz, author of Ciudadano Cero, "we are still bogged down by the Internet vs Intranet battle, where the Internet is what is outside of Cuba and the Intranet is what is inside."
Where the blogosphere is concerned, according to Rogelio Díaz, "the year that finishes this Monday 31st December, according to the Western calendar, was not a very happy one for intelligence, debate or the free expression of the inevitably existing differences among the visions and aspirations of each Cuban."
The closure of some blogs like La Joven Cuba from positions related to the government aggravated the Díaz's questioning, who also points out:
Why do they decapitate young people's attempts to subvert the assigned role of obedience, when they are the ones being called to play leading roles in the entire revolutionary process and exalted with the so-called 'Guevarian' call to the New Man?
What crystal-clear messages do these events offer?
Evidently, that the oven is not for cookies, that the latest, spontaneous voice that dares to put the policies of the ruling bureaucracy into question is in danger of being suppressed at the moment when it is deemed convenient.
There will not be tolerance of open debate, of sincere analysis of diverse ideas, not even within the field of commoners who respect socialist ideas from different aspects.
Monolithic unity and obedience to the dominant bureaucratic class will continue to be the only acceptable standard.
However, for the final day of the year, Cuban blogger and journalist Luis Sexto recommended: "I dare to suggest to you, then, that we don't pray on the last night of the year (...) for a rosary of reproaches to life.
Neither for what has been lost, nor for what we will lose".
*Cover photo by flippinyank, taken from Flickr under Licence CC BY-2.0.
Spain: Catalonia's "Declaration of Sovereignty" Translated into 36 Languages · Global Voices
On January 23, 2013, amid rising tensions with the Spanish government, the regional parliament of Catalonia approved by majority vote a Declaration of Sovereignty — seen widely as a prelude to a referendum on independence, expected to be held by 2014. Thanks to a diverse team of collaborators, the online Catalan-language publication Vilaweb has been able to offer the document in thirty-six languages. It is now available in: Afrikaans, English, Arabic, Aragonese, Arpetan, Asturian, Croatian, Danish, Slovenian, Spanish, Esperanto, Basque, French, Galician, Galician-Portuguese, Greek, Hebrew, Hungarian, Italian, Khmer, Luxembourgish, Dutch, Norwegian, Occitan, Aranese Occitan, Portuguese, Brazilian Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Sardinian, Serbian (in both the Cyrillic and Latin alphabets), Swedish, Turkish, Ukranian and Urdu.
Google CEO's Trip to North Korea, From Schmidt's Daughter's Blog · Global Voices
Google CEO Eric Schmidt visited North Korea last month and his daughter shared in her blog what the delegation saw in the hermit kingdom.
Some of highlights from the blog:
Looks great, right?
All this activity, all those monitors.
One problem: No one was actually doing anything.
A few scrolled or clicked, but the rest just staredNot a head turn, no eye contact, no reaction to stimuli.
They might as well have been figurines.
Celebrating New Year's Eve in Central Asia · Global Voices
Since independence, the post-Soviet nations of Central Asia have invented a number of new 'national' holidays.
Yet the celebration of the New Year's Eve, the Soviet people's most favorite holiday, still remains a cherished tradition among many people in the region.
Despite some calls to denounce the holiday as 'foreign' and 'un-Islamic', families in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan celebrated the arrival of the year 2013 in line with the Soviet-era tradition - with a New Year's tree, Ded Moroz (Grandfather Frost, Soviet version of Santa Claus), and Snegurochka (the Snow Maiden, Ded Moroz's granddaughter).
Kazakhstan
Although some 17 percent of Kazakhstanis view the New Year's celebration as a 'foreign' custom, over 70 percent of the country's people say they cannot imagine the New Year's eve without Ayaz Ata (the Kazakh version of Ded Moroz), Snegurochka, and a decorated tree.
Bloggers Raul Garifulin and Vyacheslav Firsov have posted pictures of New Year's fireworks in Almaty, Kazakhstan's largest city and the former capital.
New Year's fireworks in Almaty.
Image by Raul Garifulin, used with permission.
Another blogger, Ernar Nurmagambetov, wrote about his trip to Ayaz Ata's newly constructed 'residence' in northern Kazakhstan:
I do not regret the time and the money I spent to visit Ded Moroz's residence.
After the trip, my 6-year-old daughter - who had begun to doubt that Ded Moroz existed - had her eyes shining with joy.
And my son rode the real reindeer!!!
On VoxPopuli, Kazakhstan's leading photo blog, Damir Otegen posted a photo report about individuals who 'work' as Ded Morozes and Snegurochkas during the New Year's celebrations.
And Kanat Beisekeyev posted a story about two Kazakhstani bloggers who dressed as Ded Moroz and Snegurochka and walked along Almaty's main streets, congratulating people on the New Year's Eve and giving children presents.
Bloggers Vyacheslav Nerush and Konstantin Nagayev, dressed as Ded Moroz and Snegurochka, on the streets of Almaty.
Kyrgyzstan
In Kyrgyzstan, the New Year's celebration has not lost its popularity despite the recent calls from some religious and political leaders to discard the Soviet-era tradition.
In late December, Islamic clerics in this predominantly Muslims country called for the ban on the New Year's celebrations and urged the country's people to ignore the holiday.
In addition, in a meeting with university students in Bishkek, lawmaker Tursunbai Bakir Uulu said marking the New Year's Eve was 'un-Islamic'.
Apparently, these calls had little effect on most Kyrgyzstanis.
Kloop.kg has posted a detailed report about this year's holiday, including a summary of the discussion about the holiday's appropriateness among the country's bloggers and Twitter users.
The authorities in Bishkek, the Kyrgyz capital, held a massive New Year's parade of Ded Morozes and Snegurochkas.
New Year's parade of Ded Morozes and Snegurochkas in Bishkek.
Image from the Bishkek Mayor's Office Website, used with permission.
Tajikistan
In Tajikistan, there have also been recent calls to ban New Year's celebrations.
In mid-November 2012, the official website of the country's Islamic Revival Party urged the authorities in Dushanbe, Tajikistan's capital, not to erect the traditional New Year's tree, suggesting that it was unwise to spend money on an 'un-Islamic' holiday.
Unexpectedly, the call found support among some bloggers.
On Blogiston.tj, Teocrat wrote :
I personally believe that everyone should decide for themselves whether to celebrate the holiday or not.
But the state should not spend resources from the country's budget on celebrations of any kind; even without this spending, the budget has been in a critical state over the past 20 years.
I think in this situation, it makes sense to save a little bit of funds by not marking the New Year's Eve as well as many other festivities...
Comments under this blog show that there is little agreement among Tajikistani users on whether the tradition of ushering in the New Year has religious roots or has a purely secular character.
On her blog, Tajik journalist Zebo Tajibaeva also called on the authorities not to put up a New Year's tree in Dushanbe this year.
According to journalist, the tree that the authorities traditionally erect in the capital is so ugly that the country would be better off without it.
In response to these criticisms, the mayor of Dushanbe announced that the authorities would continue organizing 'grand' festivities for the New Year's celebrations.
The Tajik capital ushered in the year 2013 with a traditional New Year's tree, a massive concert, and fireworks.
On NewEurasia.net, Loki posts photos from the latest New Year's festivities in Dushanbe.
Uzbekistan
In early December 2012, there were reports that the authorities in Uzbekistan had instructed the state-run television channels not to show Ded Moroz, Snegurochka, and the decorated tree during the New Year's celebrations.
Reports also suggested that the authorities had invented new names for the Soviet-era Ded Moroz and Snegurochka.
The country's Ministry of Culture then had to interfere, saying such speculations were 'baseless'.
Indeed, the celebrations in Uzbekistan this year were no different from the past years.
On NewEurasia.net blogger Khayyam wrote :
"The Un-European Union" · Global Voices
GV Author Filip Stojanovski, on his blog Razvigor, has translated into English a mock story by Njuz.net, "the Serbian equivalent to The Onion," about the UK striving to join "the Un-European Union":
The Council of Ministers of the countries of the Un-European Union stated today in Skopje that a long road lies ahead of United Kingdom in order for it to join this international organisation.
The Macedonian translation of the story is here.
Censorship Lift for "V for Vendetta" Shocks China · Global Voices
V for Vendetta, a thriller film produced in 2005 about a near-future dystopian society, previously censored in China, was aired on China Central Television Station (CCTV) Channel Six on December 14, 2012.
Many people are surprised by the screening, in particular the mask of V, which has been used by activists all over the world as a symbol of resistance against government oppression.
Screening of a politically charged film
That's why CCTV's gesture soon became a hot topic online on Chinese micro-blogging platform Sina Weibo.
A huati , topical discussion, was even set up on the platform, which soon had more than 3469 conversation threads.
Trumpet Micro News (喇叭微新聞's highlights this popular discussion thread:
V occupied the China Central Television Station.
A photoshopped image by Twitter user Kunshou.
Now!
CCTV6 is showing V for Vendetta.
This should be the first time the film is on show in mainland China.
The news highlight attracted many to join the conversation:
橐橐：Censorship means that there is a ghost in heart.
Once the censorship is lifted, everything is normal.
Maybe China does not really need the Chinese Communist Party for leadership, of course this is speculation.
叶孤城蝶恋花：I am so excited about CCTV 6's screening of V and feel that there is hope for the Empire after all.
But I don't understand why they changed the film title (from V Revenge Killing Squad" V字仇殺隊）to "V Don't Move Team" （V字別動隊 - or V Commando Team) .
Can someone explain?
Less censorship in the future?
Apart from the film title, its content had not been edited, as pointed out by the China Digital Times.
LosAngels Angel pointed out that the State Administration of Radio Film and Television (SARF) is directly responsible for the management of CCTV 6's program, that's why the gesture has political implications:
On the evening of December 14, CCTV aired the censored movie, V for Vendetta for the first time.
The move has triggered hot discussion among netizens and some found it unbelievable or said that the channel operators had fallen asleep .
However, according to the TV circle, the production and management of CCTV's film channel are separate, the SARF is directly responsible for its administration.
Even Global Times, the state controlled media outlet, highlighted netizens' reactions on their microblog and attracted some critical comments:
南扉：Whether the movie can be aired or not is not decided by the people.
If there is no reform within the system, people can only comment on whether the king is good or bad.
我愛壹玖捌柒：Those who decided to leave have already gone and no one cares what films are put on air.
Why not show the three-hour long movie: Tiananmen?
Cupid_Yes：Why don't you open up the Great Fire Wall (internet filter)?
静静的粉玫瑰：Really hope that this is a good signal.
China is a nation with rich culture.
I miss the the Spring and Autumn warring states period where there were so many schools of thought competing with each other.
A country has hope when it has liberated thought and diverse culture.
Only till then people can look at the starry sky peacefully, while staying on solid ground.
Bridge bloggers were quick to pick up the news.
Brendon Connelly also found the screening surprising:
I have no idea how many millions may have seen this story of a masked insurgent leading a revolution against a corrupt regime, and we can only guess what cultural impact it may – or may not – have had.
Pretty soon, maybe, all of the cheap V masks won’t be just made in China.
So have things started to change in Chinese broadcasting?
Xi Jinping assumed office as the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China on November 15th and he may have brought a more liberal attitude with him…
…or perhaps V was a one-off.
Time will tell.
Gabon to Mali: History of French Military Interventions in Africa · Global Voices
The French military intervention in Mali, known as Operation Serval started on January 11, 2013 following the advance of terrorists groups towards Bamako.
Lauded by a substantial part of the Malian population and many outside observers, the military intervention diverts, however, from the non-interventionist line professed by French President Hollande in Africa.
Google interactive map of the Malian conflict by Jeune Afrique
Francis d'Alençon wonders why French interventions in Africa do not raise protests around the world:
This is odd... The french intervention in Mali does not bother anyone whereas similar actions by the USA would have raised a storm of protests..
There are perks to not being the world's top super power.
To illustrate his point, he quotes from the Cech newspaper Lidové noviny :
The French have now intervened more than 50 times in Africa since 1960.
They fought in Chad, in the war with Libya, protected regimes in Djibouti and the Central African Republic from rebels, prevented a coup in the Comoros and intervened in Côte d'Ivoire.
Whether to preserve economic interests, protect French nationals or showcase the still imposing power of France, the main tenants of the Palais de l'Élysée, either from the left or from the right wings, have frequently expressed their penchant for unilateral action.
But ... nobody has ever protested.
If ... the United States intervened in such a manner, there would be an endless sequence of protests in Europe.
U.S. embassies would see angry diplomats coming through their doors, starting with the French ones.
Map of the Tuareg rebellion in Azawad, Northern Mali showing rebel attacks as of April 5, 2012 (CC-BY-3.0)
Below is a chronology of these interventions . It is based on two articles: one is a review written by Nestor N’Gampoula for Oeil d'Afrique and another one by Jean-Patrick Grumberg for Dreuz Info. Grumberg adds that most of the French interventions in Africa took place on former colonial soil :
In 1964, airborne french troops landed in Libreville, Gabon after an attempted coup against the regime back then.
From 1968 to 1972, French troops took part in the fight against the rebellion in the Tibesti region in northern Chad.
In 1978 in Zaire (now Democratic Republic of Congo), 600 French legionnaires went into the town of Kolwezi, in the south-east to help thousands of Africans and Europeans threatened by Katangan rebels.
The mission was in response to a call for help made by President Mobutu Sese Seko to help his country.
The operation cost the lives of five legionnaires, but allowed the evacuation of 2700 Westerners.
In 1979 in CAR, Emperor Jean-Bedel Bokassa is removed by French paratroopers during the Operation Barracuda.
From 1983-1984 in Chad, France undertook Operation Manta, a 3,000 men strong operation to face armed rebels supported by Libya.
Two years later, another French military action, composed of mostly aerial attacks called "Operation Epervier", was deployed after an anti-government attack.
In Comoros in 1989, after the assassination of President Ahmed Abdallah and the takeover of the country by the French mercenary Bob Denard, about 200 French soldiers arrived in the country to force them to leave the country.
In 1990, Paris sends troops to Gabon in Libreville and Port-Gentil in reinforcement of the French contingent after violent riots erupted.
The operation allowed the evacuation of some 1,800 foreigners.
In 1991 in Zaire (now Democratic Republic of Congo), the Belgian and French troops managed to evacuate foreigners after violent riots and looting occurred in the country.
In 1991 still, French troops based in Djibouti help the Afar rebellion to disarm Ethiopian troops that had crossed the border following the overthrow of Ethiopian President Mengistu Haile Mariam.
In 1994, French and Belgian soldiers evacuate Europeans while Rwanda Hutus massacred hundreds thousands of Tutsis.
Later in the year, some 2,500 French soldiers, supported by african troops, launched "Operation Turquoise", described as a humanitarian effort, in Zaire and in eastern Rwanda.
In 1995, a thousand men involved in Operation Azalea ended another attempted coup against Comorian President Said Mohamed Djohar by Bob Denard.
In 1996 in the Central African Republic (CAR), operation Almandin secured the safety of foreigners and the evacuation of 1,600 people after the army mutinied against President Ange-Félix Patassé.
The following year in 1997, specifically after the murder of two French soldiers, a French operation against the mutineers was mandated in Bangui (Central African Republic).
The same year, 1997, some 1,200 French soldiers rescued French and African expatriates during fighting between the Congolese army and supporters of the military leader Denis Sassou Nguesso, now President of the Republic of Congo.
In 2002, French forces undertook Operation Licorne to help Westerners trapped by a military uprising that effectively divided Côte-d’Ivoire in two regions.
In 2003, Zaire (now Democratic Republic of Congo), Operation Artemis in Ituri secured the area and put an end to ongoing massacres. This was followed by the deployment of 2,000 peacekeepers, 80% of which were French.
In 2004 in Côte-d’Ivoire, France destroyed the small Ivorian airforce after government forces bombed a French base.
In 2008 a new French intervention strengthens the regime of Chadian President Idriss Deby and evacuated foreigners while rebels from neighboring Sudan attacked.
In March 2011 in Libya had the French airforces were the first to bomb Gaddafi forces after the vote at the United Nations authorized intervention in Libya to protect civilians caught up in the rebellion against Gaddafi.
NATO took command of the overall mission on March 31, a mission that helped the Libyan rebels to defeat the forces of the government and take power.
In 2011 in Côte-d’Ivoire, French forces alongside UN forces tip the balance in favor of Ouattara during the civil war. The war broke out after the refusal of Laurent Gbagbo to resign and accept the verdict of the election that pronounced Alassane Ouattara as president.
France had decided to break with his role as "policeman of Africa" by refusing to intervene again in the Central African Republic where François Bozizé (former army chief who came to power by overthrowing the elected president Ange-Félix Patassé on March 15, 2003) faced a rebellion uprising.
Little did he know that the events in Mali would force his hands :
In 2013 in Mali, French bombarded Islamist rebels after they tried to expand their powerbase towards the Malian capital, Bamako.
France had already warned that control of the north of Mali by the rebels posed a threat to the security of Europe.
At the same time, France has mounted a commando operation to try to save a French hostage held by al Shabaab militants in Somalia, also allied with al-Qaeda.
The hostage was killed by the militants.
Our Global Voices in 2012 · Global Voices
A high-school student discovers a math formula in Afghanistan. The cry of resistance from Brazil's indigenous Guarani Kaiowá gains global support. The banned film "V for Vendetta" is screened on China's state broadcaster.
Social media around the globe has been buzzing with important stories that have been missed by mainstream media, and we've been filling that void all year.
Here are some highlights from Global Voices in 2012.
Stories of strength
Our special coverage, "Reformists on Trial in Saudi Arabia" gave readers a rare glimpse into court proceedings in the Kingdom and the brave activists who are challenging the arbitrary nature of their judicial system.
In Bangladesh, despite obstacles, girls outshine boys in national exams.
Women celebrate and show the victory sign following the announcement of exam results.
Image by Bayazid Akter.
In Trinidad and Tobago, one man's hunger strike against a proposed highway, brought the whole country together:
History will show that a tipping point was reached in terms of the necessity for all governments to be transparent about the development path on which they embark.
WE may or not support the highway but, surely, we support the right to know what is being done in our names.
In Mauritania, a government employee was celebrated when he locked three Chinese investors in his office and called the police, after they tried to bribe him.
In Russia, from the rooftop of one of the country's most notorious detention facilities, prisoners began a revolt waving banners, “help us please.”
Alternative narratives
Through out the year, we tried to unravel Africa's tainted global media coverage.
We gave context to conflicts in the region, and challenged existing narratives of Africa, through stories like "Angolan Tourists Spend Big Bucks in Portugal." Posts like "Chinese Mining Boss Allegedly Killed by Striking Workers in Zambia" were published along with China in Africa: The Real Story.
In Myanmar we covered a violent crackdown on Monks protesting a China-backed mine:
Now, they burn sleeping monks at 3 a.m. and still claim it's for the rule of law, like a fool.
Our special coverage of Myanmar's Rohingya, gave voice to perspectives from the Rohingya, the Rakhine and from across the border in Bangladesh.
In Hong Kong, growing pressure from China was seen in a new curriculum on “national education” and a leading English newspaper turning red.
During the Israel-Gaza Conflict 2012, online citizen media helped reveal human realities of war on both sides of the conflict.
"I shall not hate" reads a sign carried during an anti-war protest in Tel Aviv.
Photograph shared by @RoniMore1 on Twitter
We showed Israelis protesting the military operation against Gaza and the changing dynamics of social media warfare:
Innocent people are dying on all sides, and the IDF wants to reward people for tweeting about it … It makes me sick.
Our Olympic coverage, amplified citizen voices on Saudi's first female Olympic athletes, Tajikistan's female boxer who fought all odds to win a bronze medal and Brazil's sexist reporting of the Olympics.
This August, some Ecuadorian netizens criticized the government's decision to grant asylum to the founder of Wikileaks:
they talk so much about freedom of expression when in our own country IT DOESN'T EXIST!
In Spain, thousands took to the streets to support protesting miners chanting, “yes, yes, they do represent us!”
Through our special Europe in Crisis coverage, we gave voice to the ordinary people living with the social, political and financial consequences of Europe's financial bailouts.
We covered global views on Obama's Re-election including reactions from the Arab world as US drones hit Yemen a day after Obama won the 2012 US election.
Social media, the good, the bad and the ugly
While Psy's Gangnam Style hit the 1 billion view mark on YouTube, breaking all viral records, we covered reactions from South Korea about the unexpected global success of Korean-Pop.
We also covered an activist being sentenced to jail for a tweet and confessions made by paid political trolls in the country.
In India, social media was blamed for fueling unrest in Assam and there was outrage after a Facebook post lead to arrests in the country.
Cambodia banned Internet cafes near schools, because the "internet poses numerous dangers such as terrorism, economic crimes & distribution of pornography."
Despite low internet penetration, Mauritanians found a voice online in 2012 and drew the world's attention to their country.
In Russia, we saw the Internet blacklist in action and mass protests which constituted some of the greatest social turbulence to visit Russia in more than a decade.
Ecuador created an electoral ‘Code of Conduct' for social media for the upcoming 2013 elections.
While Iranian national TV was broadcasting religious programming, social media became the main source of news on an earthquake that killed more than 250 people in eastern Iran.
This year repressive tactics against Iran's bloggers and netizens continued.
Shocking abuse photos from a classroom in China went viral on the country's micro-blogging site Weibo, proving the need for a child protection law in China.
Photo of kindergarten teacher abusing a child went viral online.
Public domain photo
In Spain, a video showing Catalonia's police beating a minor went viral and resulted in calls for the Minister of Interior to resign.
This summer, thousands of Catalan-speaking netizens celebrated the fact that Twitter finally speaks their language.
And our extensive coverage of the region tried to address why Catalans want independence from Spain.
Pro-independence rally on Via Laietana (Barcelona) on September 11, 2012. By Lohen11 on Wikimedia Commons (CC BY-SA 3.0)
Syrian rebels turned to the world wide web for combat training and a movement to save Syria's threatened heritage sites started online.
In our special coverage Sudan Revolts, blogger and Global Voices author Maha Elsanosi vividly described her three days of interrogation at the National Intelligence and Security Services:
One interrogator said to me: “Take a good look at the window, this will be the last time you ever see the sun."
Capturing a changing tide
A year after the Arab Spring, we witnessed Egypt's historic presidential elections, and continued protests in Bahrain and Yemen amid their media blackout.
With a change of guard this year in China, we captured glimpses of potential reform in the country through stories like "Tocqueville French Revolution Classic on China's Bestsellers List" and "Rare Protest in Beijing Against Express Train Catches China by Surprise."
While a few villages in India banned women from using mobile phones, a ministry in India is drafting a bill that would make it legally compulsory for husbands to pay their wives for doing household chores.
In capital city Delhi, the shocking brutal gang rape and murder of a young woman, sent the country into a frenzied debate on the safety of women, led to calls for capital punishment for rape, and prompted vigils across India:
@HistoryNeedsYou: Listen to the women of India: Don't stop your daughter from going out. Teach your son how to behave. #Delhigangrape pic.twitter.com/OvmlArpQ
In Jordan, more than 200 people created a human chain in the streets of the capital Amman to raise awareness on women's rights issues but faced a barrage of criticism.
Many drivers laughed, heckled, or harassed the demonstrators. "Go home!" was a common call, but the protestors held their ground.
You’re killing us with your honor.
Image by Roba Al-Assi from the And Far Away blog, under CC BY-NC-SA 2.0
Why Did Mali's 'Soldier of Death' Go Viral? · Global Voices
Since the start of Operation Serval in Mali, this photo has been seen and shared around the world.
The photo in question: a French soldier in Mali wearing a scarf with a skeleton motif. Public domain image from odieux connard.
In fact, this image of a French soldier wearing a scarf with a picture of a skull has become a symbol to mark the start of French military operations in Mali.
But why has this soldier made such an impression on the imaginations of Net surfers?
Reasons for the Controversy
Operation Serval is unfolding to a mixed reception of welcome greetings from the majority of the Malian population and accusations of neocolonialist intervention from others. Its goal is two-fold: protect the civilian population and take back cities being held by Jihadist groups.
This explains why the French army is facing a huge challenge in terms of a communications strategy.
But should we really be scandalized by a scarf when an armed conflict that will claim many victims is taking place?
This is what the author of the blog “Odieux Connard” points out in his post, “the scarf of war”:
Thus, indignation has made the rounds, and one after another, brave militants of the Web have felt obligated to cry scandal and ask the military brass to do something to punish the man whose choice of scarf design made him look like Ghost, a character wearing a similar-looking balaclava in the “ultraviolent” video game, Call of Duty….
Fortunately, there were many who tried to calm the waters by asserting that the soldier was just “protecting himself from the sand,” which is a valid point.
But whether he was wearing it to protect against the sand, the sun, or to smoke a pipe doesn’t really matter. The real problem is that clearly, some people were not told exactly what a war is all about
Obsession with War Imagery
This aggravated focus on the image that the military intervention might project is also annoying to Electrosphère.
He writes:
The image has quickly become a gold mine for the politically correct of all stripes who, strangely, have no objections to the weapon being carried by this soldier or his daily actions.
So this is a good time to recall certain realities about the job of legionnaire and the act of war to the sanctimonious 2.0 (and other PC people using Windows/Android/iOS) who 'want to know more, but not too much,' regardless of whether you approve, disapprove, or question the French intervention in Mali against the Jihadi militias.
You really have to wonder about the reasons for a controversy based on a scarf that, at most, might draw indifference, laughter, sarcasm, or admiration in the halls of any high school in Paris or artist’s opening in Lyon.
I am even more surprised that the military structure in its cozy, climate-controlled offices in Paris wants to apply sanctions to this soldier."
Aurélien Legrand would like people not to be so quick on the draw in reacting to the slightest hint of poor taste appearing on the web:
What annoys me the most is the knee-jerk reaction, the torrents of correct thinking gushing immediately over the Net when their words would have benefited from a bit of mulling over first.
Our cultural milieu doesn’t help.
During the hostage-taking in In Amenas, videos taken by cell phones were released to the media in record time.
Barren images, beaten bodies… We want information, we want it to be striking-just not too striking."
Unfortunately, the conflict in Mali looks like it is going to last a while.
So it will be interesting to see if the debate over events will surpass the debates over the combatants' outfits and finally come around to the stakes and consequences for the local population.
Anna Gueye contributed to this post with the sources cited.
Myanmar: 2012, the Year of Protests · Global Voices
Aung San Suu Kyi’s election victory, the reported persecution of the Rohingya people and President Barack Obama’s state visit were probably what the international community remembered about Myanmar in 2012.
These were indeed phenomenal and Global Voices was able to document and translate citizen reactions to these events and issues.
But reviewing the stories which we published in the past year, we can also declare that 2012 was a breakthrough year of protests in Myanmar.
Community protests have emerged against some development projects.
For example, the China-financed copper mining project in Letpadaung was fiercely opposed by local residents.
A protest camp established by monks was violently dispersed by state forces which drew global condemnation.
Protests against power shortage in large cities.
Photo from Facebook page of CJ Myanmar
Spontaneous protests eruptedin several large cities in response to the power blackouts last summer.
The people blamed the power shortage to the incompetence of the government and the decision to divert some of the country’s energy supply to China.
Blue balloons were released as the symbol of peace on International Day of Peace.
Photo - CJ Myanmar Facebook Page
Peace rallies were organized to support the peace talks between the government and rebels.
Various groups joined a rally celebrating the International Day of Peace, although the Peace Day event was blocked by the police.
These initiatives also highlighted that the civil war in Myanmar has created thousands of refugees in the country.
We translated a Burmese article which exposed the conditions of refugees living in refugee camps.
There were several small protests which generated public debate, especially online: Women activists who joined an anti-mining protest were detained for a brief time, the government blocked an attempt to commemorate the 50th anniversary of a military crackdown on the student movement, and a lot of people were outraged by the reported selling of ‘Buddha shoes’ Netizens are reminded not to spread hate messages on social networking sites. Photo from New Mandala
The violence in the western part of the country sparked the most intense discussion in the country while the world was almost united in condemning the human rights violations inflicted on the Rohingya people.
Surprisingly, domestic opinion on the Rohingya, which is struggling for recognition as an ethnic minority group, is divided and even opposition personalities didn’t express full support to the plight of the Rohingya.
Activists outside Myanmar are wondering why democracy icon Aung San Suu Kyi merely spoke about ‘rule of law’in reference to the Rohingya issue.
Still, the debates over the Rohingya issue should not make us forget that the local conflict has displaced thousands of innocent villagers which affected both the Rohingya and the Rakhine people.
Thousands cheered the arrival of United States President Barack Obama in Myanmar, an event which signaled that local reforms implemented by the civilian government are being recognized by world leaders.
Netizens also actively commented on the famous kiss given by Obama to Aung San Suu Kyi.
Some notable reforms in the past year included the release of more than 500 political prisoners and the holding of a regular Parliamentary elections.
Presenting the Balkan Minorities · Global Voices
A screenshot of the Face the Balkans website.
Fifteen young journalists from six different countries have produced a series of personal stories about representatives of the minorities (in a broad sense) from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Serbia, and Macedonia.
The stories are available in English, German, and French on the Face the Balkans website.
'Planet Asks for Pedalling': Cycling Through Latin America · Global Voices
Using your bike as a means of transportation is an idea that has started to take off, particularly in big cities, as described in the interview with the organizers of the Salvador Critical Mass (also known as “Bicicletada”), in the state of Bahia.
Yet, the benefits of riding a bike are not limited to their environmentally friendly role, to practising a sport or to leading a healthier lifestyle.
With a bicycle we can deliver books to homeless people in São Paulo or use it as a bike-taxi in Mozambique.
Roberto Ambrósio Filho (Beto) from Brazil had another idea:
Born in Araraquara-SP, always on the move with his bicycle and his camera.
In love with humans, their cultures and perceptions, the time has come to unite all of this in a single trip.
With faith in God, Beto is in search of something that will surpass the limits of his own physical and psychological resistance, only returning 2.5 years later when he will appreciate even more the water he drinks and the attention he gets!
The project is called Planeta pede pedal (Planet asks for Pedalling) and can be followed on Facebook, Twitter and on the website:
It consists in crossing Latin America by bike, riding through 17 countries that will compose the scenery of stories and photographs.
During these 2.5 years of journey, the contact with new cultures, smells, scenery and tastes will give strength to the legs responsible for guiding the two wheels, free of any prejudice and with the sole objective of exploring the traditions across Latin America, without fears or labels.
It was only after covering almost 1500 Km in a bicycle trip with a friend that lasted two months, that Beto started planning this new adventure.
He explains why this trip, leaving from Salvador, Bahia, on 7 January 2011 until Fortaleza, inspired him:
During these two months riding, I was able to understand what it means to travel by bike, I understood the immensity of the idea.
I understood that travelling like this, without being in a rush, gives you the freedom to get to know deeply cultures, the simplicity of people.
People that always are curious to know your story, from where you are coming from, how long you've travelled, how many kilometres you've crossed, among other simple and funny thoughts that always end up with an invitation to stay.
Photo from Beto's Trip in Brasil.
Published on Vestígio de Aventura's page on Facebook.
Used with Permission.
Imagine the amount of stories that we had the privilege to hear.
This was his second largest trip, this time with Lidiane, his wife, who graduate from Environmental Management and now had the courage to explore the world with Evandro.
Both of them met in São Paulo and began an amazing project called “Pé no Pedal e Lixo no Lixo” which is a mobile puppet theater that they carry on their bikes and perform at the schools of the cities they ride through.
The theater's major theme is environmental education, which is presented to children of all ages, who support their trip with a contribution of 2 reais.
We'd like to share below some pictures of Beto's trip through Brazil.
At the moment he is in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, and he has already completed 2000 km on the road.
Boa pedalada!!!
Route Map.
Photo from Beto's trip in Brazil.
Saudi Arabia: 36 Days in Jail for a Human Rights Sign · Global Voices
Saudi Arabia's harsh crackdown on demonstrations has led many to start experimenting with new methods for showing dissent.
A public hunger strike was one example that we have reported.
In a series of tweets, Saudi Twitter user Mohammad al-Olayan told his own story of writing a human rights sign, namely "No to arbitrary detainment," on his car.
On Sunday December 16th, I was arrested by emergency forces on my way back from work because of a "No to arbitrary detainment" sign on my car's rear glass.
I was transferred to al-Manar police after my car had been photographed.
A policeman started the interrogation and I denied responsibility.
I told them that I had found the writing at dawn when I was about to leave to work and I couldn't remove it because the ink was irremovable.
I affirmed my statements with a fingerprint and I asked the policeman to allow me to leave even if this requires a third person since I did not commit any crime and did not violate any law, but he refused and told me that I am under detainment for interrogation.
Then a policeman asked me to hand my mobile phone and my keys and took me to a very, very crowded communal cell with inhumane conditions.
The policemen told me but I refused to do so.
He then took me to a solitary confinement cell, but it was leaking and full of dirt so I refused to get in so he took me to a hallway and said that no place left but this one I told him that this was a better place, so he tied me to an iron door then they took me to the communal cell at dawn
al-Olayan continued by reporting further interrogation in which he was asked whether he had attended the public trial of two of Saudi Political and Civil Rights Association's (ACPRA) co-founders (which we have a Special Coverage for!)
ACPRA found out about his arrest so they asked a volunteer lawyer to help him.
al-Olayan was finally sent to court and he continued to deny responsibility.
The judge issued an order to release him, after 36 days, on the condition of attending further sessions if he was ever called.
Secret Life and Death of Mossad Spy 'Prisoner X' · Global Voices
Revelations by Australian Broadcasting Corporation’s (ABC) progamme Foreign Correspondent on 12 February, 2013 have fired up Australian onliners.
The mysterious Prisoner X who allegedly committed suicide in an Israeli gaol in 2010 was not only a dual citizen of Australia and Israel, but also a Mossad agent.
J-Wire, Jewish online news from Australia and New Zealand, responded the next day:
The ABC program was careful to point out that certain issues which could be interpreted as facts are in fact mere speculation.
They say they “understood Zygier had been recruited by Mossad”.
The ABC correcty points out that countries such as Australia and New Zealand are quiet and “innocent”.
There is no doubt that Ben Zygier “disappeared” in 2010 and human rights activists have criticized the Israeli government for the secret imprisonment of Prisoner X.
Israeli media has been silenced by powerful laws which impact on the nation’s security.
In Australia, messages left for the Zygier family remain unanswered.
Was Ben Zygier “Prisoner X”… perhaps only time will tell, and perhaps a substantial amount of time.
They underestimated the power of the media.
The Israeli government tried to continue its censorship but has now come clean apparently:
Israel has confirmed the reported suicide of an Australian prisoner who had worked for the Israeli spy agency Mossad, according to Al Jazeera.
Israel broke its silence on Wednesday after Australia's ABC news network first revealed the identity of Prisoner X, a 34-year-old man who had used three different names, including Ben Zygier, Ben Allen, and Ben Alon.
Ben Zygier, Prisoner X - Image by Mahmoud illean copyright Demotix 13 Feb 2013
The Australian government also admitted knowledge of his mysterious life and death, after initial denials.
What and when they knew will be an ongoing debate no doubt.
Asher Wolf wants answers now:
‏@Asher_Wolf: Prisoner X never stood trial, was jailed for crimes unknown & died alone.
The diplomats & politicians who abandoned him must face an inquiry
It’s not the first time that Mossad's use of Australian passports has caused tension between the two normally friendly nations.
Fake passports were used in the assassination of Mahmoud Al-Mabhouh in 2010.
Amelia Freelander is following connections between the events:
‏@MiaRubySydney: The plot thickens RT @JamalDajani Prisoner X arrest is related to the Mossad's assassination in Dubai using stolen Australian passports Prominent Australian author and blogger Antony Loewenstein tweeted a link to Richard Silverstein’s blog Tikun Olam: ‏@antloewenstein: Will #Australian media ask necessary questions about #Zionist community after exposure of another likely spy? http://www.richardsilverstein.com/2013/02/12/prisoner-x-was-mossad-agent-ben-zygier/ …
According to Silverstein:
Back in 2010, I reported that Israel had arrested an unidentified individual, and imprisoned him in total secrecy in an Israeli jail.
The cell he occupied had once housed Yigal Amir Even his jailers didn’t know who he was.
Wmmbb of Duckpond asks the big questions in the post PRISONER X, MURDERED?:
Speculation around the death of Ben Zyglier will now be rife.
What could he have done?
The Happy Antipodean is concerned that speculation soon becomes fact in the media:
In early stories doubt was cast over the way Zygier died but today suicide is being stated as a fact… Surprising amid all of this media scrutiny is the silence of Zygier's Melbourne family, which is prominent in the Jewish community.
No media organisation has so far been able to extract new information from any of its members.
Abalinx, a supporter of the opposition Liberal Party in Australian, is concerned about support of citizens overseas:
It is bad enough when an Australian dies alone in his own country. It is worse when he or she dies alone in a foreign country, forgotten even by his own government.
Even though Prisoner X (now identified as Ben Zygier) took on a dual Israeli citizenship does not absolve the Australian Foreign Affairs Department for failing to pass on the information up higher for further discussion.
Dr Ben Saul of the Sydney Centre for International Law canvasses many of international law questions at the Drum:
The Israelis are masters of all the dark arts: assassination (from Munich), abduction (from Eichmann onward), torture (of Palestinian prisoners), pre-emptive military strikes (from Iraq to Syria), violent interception of civilians at sea (the Gaza flotilla), and colonising foreign territory (the juiciest parts of Palestine).
He finishes by reflecting on local Jewish sentiment about the case:
Australia's Jewish communities are also aghast at this episode and deserve better.
After giving so much to support to Israel, one would hope that Israel would treat Australian Jews serving their other homeland with greater dignity, whatever they have done.
You know you’re on a winner with an exclusive scoop like this one.
Mark Scott, Managing Director of ABC, tweeted:
‏@abcmarkscott: Huge twitter reaction to tonight's Foreign Correspondent on Prisoner X. Up now on iview. http://bit.ly/XFBfGF @ForeignOfficial
The #prisonerx hashtag has plenty more...
Bangladesh Unites at Shahbag for 42-Year-Old War Crimes · Global Voices
Drop by drop, the Shahbag intersection in Bangladesh's capital city Dhaka has become an ocean of people, demanding justice for atrocities committed during the country's 1971 liberation war and death penalty for war criminals.
According to some estimates as many as 500,000 people are at Shahbag.
Ten days ago, the Bloggers and Online Activists Network (BOAN) called for protests after the Secretary General of Bangladesh's Islamist party Jamaat-e-Islami Abdul Quader Mollah was found guilty of war crimes committed during 1971.
He was sentenced to life in prison on 344 counts of murder, rape and arson by the International Crimes Tribunal on 5 February 2013.
Since Bangladesh's law allows death by hanging for heinous crimes, most people expected Quader Mollah to be taken to the gallows.
When he wasn't they took to the streets and to Facebook.
Ocean of people in Shahbagh.
Image by Zakir Hossain Chowdhury.
Copyright Demotix (11/2/2013)
Popular poet and a professor of Jahangirnagar University Khaled Hossain hopes for success of the Shahbag movement.
He writes on his Facebook wall:
This awakening is not from greed or material profit.
This is an aesthetic outcome of collective positive thoughts.
We have nothing to gain except victory.
Blogger, writer and teacher Moom Rahaman calls everyone to join in at the Shahbag intersection:
Those youth who are in the city and have not managed to come to Shahbag, please know that you are far away from history, away from the present and future.
Still you have time to come besides us.
Those who are young, this is the right time to go to Shahbag.
Tausif Hamim is a youth who is staying overnight to show solidarity to the protests.
Vaskar Abedin shares Hamim's status:
I go to Shahbag three times aday, shout slogans, when I am tired, I scratch my head, look around, see with wonder that the lamp posts have become hanging posts.
Quader Mollah's effigy is hanging in that post.
I learn new words - S for Saka Chowdhury, You are Razakar, G for Golam Azam, You are Razakar.
When I am hungry, I come back home, eat my lunch and go back to Shahbag.
The evening rolls in, the slogans get intense, as it becomes dark the burning torches smells like retribution, I collect all the used torches, put paper on the spilled kerosene, become more tired, eat peanuts and burn the peanut shells with burning candles.
Lucky Akter shouting slogans.
Image by Firoz Ahmed.
A number of private TV channels are broadcasting these ongoing protests.
Because of these broadcasts, Lucky Akter, a leading protester has become popular for her fiery slogans.
British-Bangladeshi Morshed Akhter writes:
From today Lucky Akter is my sister.
And in this way Lucky Akters become our sisters, "next to kin".
Lot of love for you.
Shimul Bashar, a reporter of a private TV channel has hopes for the #Shahbag protests:
I reiterate that these days of Shahbag will be part of history.
I do not have anything greater than this in my life.
Mama, i can't sleep.
I keep thinking about Shahbag.
I remember the faces.
Many people across the board have supported the cause but Nobel Laureate Dr. Muhammad Yunus is keeping mum so far.
Azad Master noticed this:
Non-Nobel Dr. Zafar Iqbal has came to the podium with his wife to shout slogans.
But Nobel Laureate Dr. Yunus is keeping mum this time also.
School student are protesting.
Copyright Demotix (11/2/2013)
Saikat Shuvro Aic questions Bangladesh Nationalist Party's (the largest opposition party) - position on the ongoing protests:
Oh BNP!
The do not have voice, or foresight!
Oh God, please save this party.
Many think that the protests are government supported.
Others think that this shows a failure of the government.
But Bijoy Mazumdar does not agree:
In politics, there is no scope to misunderstand what people want.
The people politics is for the people.
The peoples' politics is against injustice, repression and oppression.
The peoples' politics is not for power, to free the power from corruption.
Those who are protesting in Shahbag, they are not doing it to empower any party.
Their fight is to establish justice.
This protest in the awakening of the younger generation
Some are thinking that this protest is a ploy of the ruling party to hide their failures in different areas.
I have a different answer.
Those who are uniting and asking justice for a 42 year old crime, one day the same crowd will be vocal against those who are doing rampant corruption.
This is the same crowd that become vocal in 1971 and clinched our freedom.
In 2013 the same crowd has erupted, with a different purpose, for justice.
Every day, new Facebook accounts are being opened for and against the movement.
Those for the protests include Shahbag Movement and Projonmo Square and those against are Voice of Nationalist and Bamboo Castle.
The protesters have vowed to keep Shahbag occupied till their demands are met.
Secular Politician Shot Dead, Protests Erupt Across Tunisia · Global Voices
Chokri Belaid.
Photo taken by Amine Ghrabi on October 15, 2012, shared on Flickr. (CC-NC)
Protests have erupted across Tunisia, following the assassination of Chokri Belaid, a leading member of the secular opposition, and a staunch opponent of the Islamist-led coalition government.
His supporters and his mourners are either directly or indirectly accusing the Islamists for his murder.
Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali condemned the murder and described it as an "act of terrorism", while President Moncef Marzouki cancelled his trip to Cairo where he was supposed to participate at the summit of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.
France24 Observers published a video shot by Bel Fekih Amine, Belaid's neighbor on its YouTube page.
The video shows the crime scene a few minutes after Belaid was shot dead outside his home in the early hours of February 6, 2013.
Family Accuses Islamists:
The police is still investigating, but Belaid's family is pointing fingers at the Islamist party Ennahdha. ‏@simonsayzzzzz, a journalist working for Agence France Presse tweeted :
Chokri Belaid's brother: I accuse Rached Ghannouchi of assassinating my brother" #AFP #Tunisie
Zannoubia tweeted:
the sister of Chokri Belaid at the avenue has accused Ennahdha, the ministry of interior and their militias for killing her brother
Ennahdha denied such accusations.
Sasa Petricic the Middle East Correspondent for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation tweeted:
#Tunisia ruling Islamist Ennahda party denies responsibility in killing of prominent secular opp leader #ChokriBelaid, despite differences
"Assassinated for his ideas":
Belaid was known for being a vocal critic of the government and Tunisian Islamists.
Though, it is still not known who was behind his murder, Tunisian netizens seem to be confident that his anti-Islamist ideas cost him his life. Haythem tweeted:
RIP Chokri Belaid.
AFP has also reported that the offices of Ennahdha and the government in several provinces of the country were attacked and vandalized.
(CC-NC) The collective blog Nawaat reports:
@nawaat: thousands of protesers in Gafsa .
Ennahdha office was ransacked, furniture and documents were burned
@nawaat: in Rdeyef , the teachers' syndicate declared a general strike.
Ennahdha's office was ransacked and its furniture burned in the street.
@nawaat: In Sidi Bouzid, hundreds of protesers try to break into the police district office Sasa Petricic tweeted: Offices of #Tunisia governing party Ennahda attacked after opp’n leader #ChokriBelaid assassinated.
Thousands protest in Tunis, SidiBouzid
At Habib Bourguiba Avenue , police used tear gas to disperse protesters, who gathered outside the headquarters of the Interior Ministry, chanting anti-government slogans and calling upon the Interior Minister to leave office.
France 24 correspondent David Thomson tweeted :
tear gas at Habib Bourguiba avenue, protesters dispersed
He added in another tweet :
the situation degenerates into clashes between protesters and police
Privately-owned radio station Shems FM shared the following video showing the chaotic situation at Habib Bourguiba avenue.
The clashes led to the death of a police officer, announced the Interior Ministry on its official facebook page.
From Whispers to Outcry: Sexism in Germany · Global Voices
On January 25, 2013 an #Aufschrei (outcry) rang out through the German-speaking blogosphere in response to an article in Stern, a weekly German news magazine.
Journalist Laura Himmelreich reported on an encounter with Rainer Brüderle, a politician from the Free Democratic Party (FDP), who allegedly made remarks about her buste and approached her inappropriately.
Himmelreich's experience is just one of many examples of sexism that exists in everyday life.
Using the hashtag #aufschrei (#outcry), female Twitter users have been reporting their experiences of similar cases of everyday sexism, sexual harassment and, in some cases, even of sexual abuse.
Below are some of the tweets:
@terrorzicke: The lecturer who whispered to me at an Erasmus party: “I want to see you naked!” #aufschrei #England
@Ine_12e: I’m sewing up the perineal suture tighter than it was before, your husband should be pleased with that.
A doctor after giving birth. #aufschrei
Street Art in Karlsruhe.
Photo from Flickr by theodoritsis (CC BY-ND 2.0)
@KatiKuersch: The supervisor who told me I just needed to get on my back to feel psychologically better. #aufschrei
@marthadear: My friend's dad who smacked all the girls on the bum at her birthday party.
I spent the whole time hiding. #aufschrei
@Wendelherz: Feeling, at the beginning, that I couldn't add anything at all and then bit by bit, everything came up and I wanted to throw up. #aufschrei
hanhaiwen: And to anyone who has ever responded to such an incident with an unsympathetic, “So what?” #aufschrei
@sincerelyjurs: And always feeling like you’re not allowed to label these situations as sexist, without being branded a killjoy. #aufschrei
MmeCoquelicot: It’s not that I can’t fight back, it’s that I shouldn’t always have to. #aufschrei
In the eyes of many Germans, sexism is not a problem that exists in today’s society.
However, the tweets posted with the hashtag #aufschrei (outcry) show that this is not an accurate view and that sexism is in fact a common problem, even now.
Journelle tweets:
What I like about #aufschrei (outcry) is that it’s bringing much-deserved attention to these abhorrent cases of casual sexism that might otherwise be ignored or trivialized.
Antje Schrupp writes about the newsworthiness of sexism and investigates the causes of this debate:
Despite the unpleasant nature of these incidents, up until the day before yesterday, a number of men would not have considered them to be newsworthy, even those who treat women with dignity and respect.
As a result, they have been trying to come up with additional reasons to justify the publication of these incidents.
But reports of this kind are considered newsworthy by masses of women, as well as men and so do not need any further justification in order to be published.
Sexual harassment in any shape or form is by no means an insignificant matter.
Unfortunately, as so often happens in such debates, the uninformed and ignorant also feel the need to speak out and be heard.
Below is one of the more friendly comments made by Twitter users criticising or ridiculing the campaign:
@robby_eberlein: #aufschrei (outcry) How boring and dull your life must be to get upset about this nonsense…
Meike Lobo took to her blog to criticise, among other things, the vagueness inherent in the terms ‘sexism’, ‘abuse’ and ‘sexual violence’:
For one thing, by using these catchwords together, the situation tends to be overdramatized and, far worse, trivialized.
The main idea behind using each of these words may well be similar, namely, the objectification of the person subjected to it, but as far as I’m concerned, that’s also all it is.
Child abuse and rape are the most serious of crimes and are automatically differentiable from sexism, which, although often unpleasant, sleazy and tasteless, is not in itself a crime.
In my opinion, misemplying such grave crimes in an attempt to solve what is essentially a social problem, is a slap in the face to all victims of sexual violence (who, of course, may well feel differently).
Sensitive Men
Some men have shown themselves to be rather more discerning and have vowed to react more sensitively to these issues in the future:
John tweets:
@einbequemesbrot: Disgusting that this is still happening in this day and age.
Will be more considerate in the future. #Aufschrei
Alf Frommer reports on the change in attitudes triggered by this discussion on his blog Siegstyle.de:
There is a Brüderle hiding in everyone.
A master of dirty jokes or a pervy old man.
I should really look at my own behaviour, even though I would never consider myself to be sexist.
But maybe that is where the danger lies. I consider myself to be a modern man, who takes women seriously and supports gender equality.
Nevertheless, as someone who, at least initially, judged the Education Secretary based purely on her appearance, I am in some ways no better than an Ol’ Dirty Brüderle or a Franz-Josef Wagner .
That is why I am pleased about the ongoing discussion. I see it as a prompt to reevaluate myself and my own behaviour.
By January 25, the Twitter debate had even reached the mainstream media: Handelsblatt (a leading German language business newspaper) and Spiegel (a weekly German news magazine).
In the meantime, the debate has spread to every type of media, including television.
The main news programmes on public television have reported on the matter, while sexists and feminists took to political talk showa to debate the terminology being used, and whether sexism is even a problem.
The debate on sexism has escalated to such a height of publicity so quickly, primarily because it exposes the ongoing existence of a cultural phenomenon believed to have been long since overcome.
As members of a modern society, Germans seem to think that sexism, gender stereotypes and the like have been left firmly in the past, but the reports surfacing on Twitter give powerful evidence to the contrary.
Consequently, this has led to a passionate and emotionally-charged debate, that is, at times, lacking in respect and sensitivity to the subject matter. Since then, the Twitter hashtag has gone global.
See: #outcry and #assez.
Crowdfunders Empty Pockets for Catalan Independence · Global Voices
'L'endemà.
Respostes per a decidir', a documentary project about Catalonia's potential independence from Spain, produced by Isona Passola , earned a record-breaking €150,000 on the crowdfunding platform Verkami on February 15, 2013.
Passola, who produced the award-winning film Pa Negre , hoped to reach that amount in 40 days, but reached that goal in just eleven.
Previously, the crowdfunding record in Catalonia was €,50,000, according to the Catalan-language journal Diari Ara .
The project's promoters have eagerly asserted that if they can reach €153,108 the film will be "the most successful crowdfunding project in Europe."
L'endemà is intended to project "clear, solid, reliable and credible arguments" to combat "the fear of voting YES" in an upcoming referendum for the independence that the Catalan government is organizing, while defying firm resistance from the central Spanish government.
Bulgarian Government Quits, But Protests Continue · Global Voices
On Sunday, February 24, 2013 tens of thousands of Bulgarians protested against corruption, high utility bills and poverty.
The coastal city of Varna was declared the Protest Capital: over 40,000 people turned up for the Sunday's rally there.
Some 15,000 people protested in Plovdiv.
While it is difficult to determine the exact number of the February 24 protesters, activist sources say there were more than 200,000 of them nationwide.
In Sofia, the slogans included: "Let's Set the Monopolies on Fire!"; "Balkans, wake up!
For a real democracy!"; "End to illusions, civil action every day!"; "We, Bulgarians, Turks, Roma, Armenians - we are all #Bulgaria-n citizens!
We must stand up against political manipulation!"
24 protest in Sofia.
Photo by Ruslan Trad.
Here's a video from the protest in Sofia, filmed by the author of this post:
The protest in Sofia coincided with the enthronement ceremony for Neofit, the newly-elected Patriarch of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church; the city was paralyzed, no public transport, except for the metro, was running.
Minutes after he was officially enthroned, Patriarch Neofit vowed to pray for peace and unity of the Bulgarian people.
This gesture of support for the protesters was well-received by them, while President Rosen Pleveliev, who addressed the crowd in Sofia, was booed.
The protesters called political parties not to manipulate or get involved in the protests.
At the rally in Veliko Tarnovo, they even chased some political representatives away .
Stanislava Stefanova wrote :
Don't they understand that there is no place for them at the protest of the people????
Isn't it clear enough that we don't want them???
Following the surprise resignation of Boyko Borisov's government on February 20, which came after an earlier protest turned violent, activists of the protest movement held a meeting in the city of Sliven and agreed on a list of demands: not to adjourn the Parliament; the President should appoint experts to the new government, instead of making it a caretaker one; to draft a Civil Participation Bill providing a 50% civil quota in all institutions; to return 51% of the energy sector shares to the State; to close the Bulgarian Energy Holding, BEH, for draining the energy sector; to summon the Grand National Assembly, establishing a procedure to recall MPs.
Lada Dimitrova wrote in a comment at the February 24 protest photo gallery on the "Saprotiva" ("Resistance") page: I'm not concerned with who will be the leader, it is important for me to live in dignity!
Video of Brutal Beating of Women Shocks Angola · Global Voices
On February 7, 2013, Angola awoke to screams of pain and the sound of two women customers of a store being whipped.
In just three days the 13-minute video that showed two women being brutally beaten and had more than 25,000 views on YouTube, was aired on state television. It shocked the Angolan community.
Accused of stealing soap and champagne bottles, the women were severely punished and sexually humiliated by several men, including the owner of the store.
They later told reporters their ordeal lasted hours.
The aggressors used machetes, nightsticks and hoses to torture the women, in a scene reminiscent of the days of slavery.
In a country where the Internet still plays a limited role, it was transformed in this instance into an instrument of greater oversight and allowed the country to see firsthand the meaning of the term "private justice". The internet, a symbol of emancipation, only now in Angola takes its first steps as a watchdog in service of the people, as journalist Reginaldo Silva explains on Facebook:
I think from today on, social networks earned a new status for those who run this country, with my attention now turned on the judiciary...
It is important that the established powers start to face the information that is produced here in a different way...
There were a number of voices raised against the video and expressing their grief and repudiation of the disseminated footage, such as the Prosecutor General Paulo Tchipilica, and the Governor of Luanda, Bento Bento.
However in a statement the Radio Eclésia commentator and President of Bloco Democrático, Justino Pinto de Andrade, believes that it is impossible to believe these members of government:
Every day there is gratuitous and barbarous violence against citizens, as though they had no rights, the most fundamental rights.
Now, fruit of the exposure this footage enjoyed, we hear manifestations of repudiation by the Prosecutor General, Paulo Tchipilica, and even by the Governor of Luanda, Bento Bento.
The question that I pose is the following: is it possible to believe in the manifest "grief" shown by these two men in charge, when their voice of protest is never heard, when people are attacked on the street, when protesters are assailed in barbarous ways
The Group of Parliamentary women also condemned the scenes of violence against the two women.
In a communiqué to Lusa news agency, MPLA MP, and former Minister of the Family and Promotion of Women, Candida Celeste Silva said that:
The Group of Parliamentary women congratulates the citizens who reported the crime, considering it an attack on Human Rights
However journalist and ex-BBC correspondent Reginaldo Silva, believes that most women should watch the footage again:
All the women who I heard from today condemning the scene of violence against the two women seem to have ignored that the scenes were witnessed on the spot by at least three women, as the footage itself easily proves.
It is a detail that makes some difference and should not be ignored when justice is to be done...
The stolen bottle, Moet Chandon, which costs just 28€, is now associated on social networks with the scenes of aggression, as can be seen on an image shared by Master Ngola Nvunji‎ on Facebook.
The blog Círculo Angolano Intelectual (Angolan Intellectual Circuit) also cautions that this video is a portrait of Angolan society and where it is headed.
We have to rethink the type of country and society that we want to leave for our children and future generations, and in this way we all have to react and nobody can remain indifferent, because unfortunately cases like this are everyday for us... criminality is the fruit of poverty, misery, unemployment, unjust social policies, even the police themselves with low salaries are more worried about gasosa for their survival than for the defense of the citizen and the common good.
This post was written in collaboration with Janet Gunter.
Citizens Document Extreme Water Pollution in China · Global Voices
As the effects of China’s toxic smog problem in mid-January continue to reverberate throughout the country, severe water pollution has recently been brought to light by online campaigns calling for a reality check on the state of rivers across the nation.
Leading the campaign is Deng Fei (@邓飞), a former investigative journalist and now a prominent social activist, who invited people to snap photos of rivers and post them on the microblogging service Weibo.
#How is the river in your hometown?# While celebrating Chinese New Year at home, please take a photo of the river and upload it to Weibo for us to see.
His call touched a nerve and many went online to voice their anger over polluted rivers.
Photos posted by netizens show waste and litter scattered along river banks.
A collection of microbloggers' photos of river pollution near their hometowns by Snapshot of Pollution (＠家乡污染全民拍).
According to the Chinese Ministry of Supervision, over 1,700 water pollution incidents are estimated to occur every year.
The World Bank, in a 2007 report titled The Cost of Pollution in China, labeled water pollution a “significant problem” in China’s rural areas, putting the number of premature deaths caused by water and air pollution at 750,000 per year.
Describing the pollution, @xiaotaiyang1988 (@土豆_连种带挖) said:
#Coming home to check the river# The city moat in my hometown has turned from smelly and dirty to very smelly and very dirty.
A chemical factory has been introduced in the west of the county, and even my little brother in middle school said the project was introduced in our county because it couldn’t open in the city and because this project is hard to come by given the difficulty of attracting investment.
Dense smoke is being emitted (from the factory).
Wastewater from residents on the river bank now directly enters the river, and while people had the willingness to address it a few years back, we have now just abandoned the effort altogether. @DengFei
@FlyOnTheSea (@海阔依飞) wrote sarcastically:
#How is the river in your hometown# That is a restricted zone you can’t get close to……
Some Chinese media have also joined the crusade against water pollution.
The Beijing News (@新京报), a paper known for its hard-hitting journalism, presented a horrific picture on its official Weibo account:
According to experts at China Geological Survey, 90% of the underground water has suffered different degrees of contamination, with 60% suffering severe contamination.
According to Xinhua News Online, data taken from relevant monitoring departments in 118 cities has shown that about 64% of the underground water in the cities has been severely contaminated, 33% of the underground water has been lightly contaminated, and only 3% of the underground water in the cities is considered moderately clean.
Even the People’s Daily (@人民日报), the official mouthpiece newspaper of the government, has weighed in and issued a grave warning on its Weibo account:
【Micro-comment: “Declare War” on underground water pollution】Amid the holiday atmosphere, the reality of underground water pollution has made people anxious.
Disposing of wastewater underground will inevitably contaminate water resources, harm our generation, and pass along the damage to the next.
Enterprises shouldn’t poison the public to chase higher profits, government agencies shouldn’t loosen their regulations for the sake of their work performance.
We want a GDP that won't kill the next generation, and from the government to the public, we should all trumpet the cause of water pollution control and preserve clean water sources for a beautiful China.
As the chatter in the cyberspace heats up and draws more media attention, there are indications that efforts to expose the extent of water pollution have taken a turn.
Laywer Gang Yuanchun (@甘元春律师 ) posted a message on his Weibo account:
【 Exposure of underground water pollution and block of tonight’s battle, journalists being held, support needed】According to @DengFei and @FengYongFeng: When the city of Weifang in Shandong province sent people to Beijing to talk to a “certain department” to exercise censorship to prevent media’s exposure of the region’s water pollution problem, CCTV’s finished news was successfully blocked by Weifang.
Meanwhile, journalists in Weifang remain under house arrest, detained by some 40 people.
The message was later deleted, pointing to the sensitivity of the issue.
Environmental degradation remains as much a grave public concern as a challenge for China's ruling party.
China’s obsession with fast economic growth over the past decade has taken a heavy toll on its environment, enraging a public that is not content with only materialistic benefits.
On July 28, 2012, thousands of people took to the street and stormed a local government office in Qidong, a city in China’s coastal Jiangsu province, over worries of water contamination by a nearby paper factory.
And in January of this year, Global Voices reported on residents in the city of Handan who drank and bathed in toxic water when left uninformed by the government about water contamination.
The balancing act between boosting a slowing economy through industrial output and possible social unrests triggered by public health crisis presents a daunting political calculus for China's authorities.
In Pictures: The Protesting Crowd In Shahbag · Global Voices
Last Friday, 8th of February, 2013, thousands of people started to gather since morning in Shahbagh's Projonmo Chottor (Generation Square) in solidarity with bloggers and online activists' ongoing protests.
On 3:00PM the mass gathering in Bangladesh capital Dhaka started with singing the national anthem.
It is really hard to tell how many people gathered for peaceful protests on that day.
Many opined that almost 200,000 people joined in solidarity with the protest for stricter punishment of the war criminals.
The Bloggers and online activists Network has been leading these protests continuously since last Tuesday.
Many students, teahcers, freedom fighters, civil society leaders and families of the war martyrs joined this protest.
The protesters are sharing their demands and news of different protest events via an informative website titled Shahbag.org.
In that site they are also informing about protests across the world in solidarity with their demands.
People can get updates following Twitter hashtags #Shahbagh and #Shahbag.
Different Facebook pages such as Shahbag Movement and Shahbag Square are sharing breaking news, pictures, opinions and videos.
The protests in Shahbag are also being livestreamed intermittently which you can watch.
The latest addition is a streaming radio broadcasting the speaches and slogans live.
Below you can find some pictures from the events of Friday.
All pictures were taken by Arif Hossain Sayeed and used with permission.
Children participating in a Mass signature petition event.
The protesting crowd's demand "We want capital punishment"
The protesting crowd's demand "We want capital punishment"
An old lady joining the protests
Agitation by the protesting crowd
Protests against poor coverage in international media.
girls in a sit-in protest
protests continued at night
Slogans - The fight will go on
Slogans and placards against war criminals
Innovative protests
Protesting Crowd
Slogan of Protesting Crowd
Children among the crowd
Children also participated in protest
Huge crowd at the protest
Egyptians Elected Morsi Because ... · Global Voices
On Twitter, Egyptians who voted for Mohamed Morsi in the Egyptian presidential elections in June 24 are remorseful - and their regret is evident in a new hashtag which reads: I elected Morsi because ..
The hashtag #انا_انتخبت_مرسي_عشان generated tongue-in-cheek and sarcasm.
Morsi, the Muslim Brotherhood candidate, won the presidential runoff elections against Ahmed Shafik, the last prime minister of Hosni Mubarak, who resigned after 32 years following 18 days of country-wide protests against his rule.
Just a few months into his rule, and Egyptians are back on the streets demanding his departure.
And just like under Mubarak's rule, protests are crushed and turn violent as protesters and police clash.
Sara Hassan says : @saram7assan2010: I elected Morsi because I can die a martyr Ahmed Arafi notes:
@AhmedArafi: They elected you Morsi so that they can hit themselves with their shoe
Mohamed Salah adds:
@7agog: I elected Morsi because I am a man who is a son of a dog
And Mohamed Youssef jokes:
@yousufian: I elected Morsi because he has style and speaks English very well and is the only person to see the blessed renaissance bird
Alyaa Gad remarks:
@AlyaaGad: I elected Morsi because he will solve Egypt's population explosion problem as part of a five-year plan to increase train and road crashes and the collapse of buildings. He will also make Egyptians impotent.
Meanwhile, @SaLaMonty_ abolishes his responsibility in Morsi's election saying:
@SaLaMonty_: I swear to God I didn't elect Morsi.
I would cut off my hands and not elect that jackass.
I thank God I was Mubtilun (people who cast void ballots)
'Follow the Pope's Lead,' Brazil Tells Senate President · Global Voices
On the heels of Pope Benedict XVI's sudden resignation, Brazilians in the full swing of Carnival called on the country's newly elected Senate president, who is at the center of a corruption investigation, to follow the example set by His Holiness and step down.
More than 1.5 million people have signed an online petition seeking the ouster of Renan Calheiros, who despite being investigated for embezzlement, forgery, and the use of a false document, was elected head of the Senate on February 1 in a secret ballot with 56 voting in favor and 18 against.
The accusations of corruption leveled at Calheiros by the country's top prosecutor were not made public until the same day of his victory .
Calheiros himself did not mention the investigation in his opening address as Senate president.
Outraged by the secrecy surrounding the affair, Brazilians quickly mobilized at the time against Calheiros, a member of the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party (PMDB).
Carnival revelers took advantage of the pontiff's departure to reignite protests amid the festivities.
Blogger Genésio Braganza wrote that the Pope has provided a great example for Brazilian politicians:
While the world reacts to the Supreme Pontiff's resignation with congratulations for the greatness of His attitude, in the case of Brazilians, the absence of resignation causes blushing, anger, dissatisfaction, sadness and frustration!
"Renan, if I can you, you can, too. Resign!".
The Pope sends a message to Renan in a photomontage by badarts blog.
Neither the high-ranking position nor the allegations of corruption are anything new for Calheiros, re-elected in 2010 for his third term.
The senator from the northeastern state of Alagoas was head of the upper chamber from 2005 to 2007, until a corruption scandal nicknamed "Renangate" forced him to resign.
With the move, the congressman avoided a possible disqualification from holding office, which would have prevented his re-election for the current term.
If convicted this time by the Supreme Federal Court (STF), Calheiros will face up to 23 years in jail and a fine.
Journalist Marco Eusébio commented on the same day of the bombshell news : The resignation of Pope Benedict XVI is by far the top "Trending Topic" on Twitter Brazil today.
Who knows?! The message below, by Tico Santa Cruz, was shared over 250 times on Twitter: @Ticostacruz: I'm not Catholic, so the Pope's resignation means nothing to me.
But I am Brazilian and Renan's resignation would be very important to me
Other tweets demonstrated the frustration and hope of the people:
@josealaide: Happy New Year everyone.
Carnival is over.
The year begins.
The Pope has resigned.
Renan carries on.
And the people... "danced" .
@Nailormarques: The Pope has resigned.
Chavez, Renan, Sarney you have to wake up, your shelf life has already passed. And many protested with an added hint of typical Brazilian humor:
Renan is tipped to the Vatican, Scolari for the Senate and the Pope goes to the Brazilian National Team. @athosronaldo: We hold more than 1.3 million signatures in a petition to oust Renan and it is the Pope who resigns.
That online petition was set up in Avaaz by sales representative Emiliano Magalhães a few hours after Calheiros' election and surpassed, in the heart of Carnival Sunday, the target established by the organizers of 1.36 million signatures, equivalent to 1 percent of the national electorate.
The new goal is now 1.6 million – twice as many as the number of Calheiros' electors.
As of February 14, the petition was only 80,000 signatures shy of its target.
Although the petition has no value from the legal standing, it will be used to "stir things up in the media and demand the resignation of the Senate president".
The campaign's introduction reads :
Brazilian people!
We have just been made buffoons!!!
Senator Renan Calheiros has just been elected Senate president with 56 secret votes!
This is absurd!
And we shall not be silent in the face of such ATROCITY!!!
We must not have our hands tied!
The Carnival block party "Out Renan and the Guisers" refers to the 56 masked senators who voted in the dark for the Senate president. Besides virtual petitions, the Brazilian population has been taking to the street throughout Brazil even over the bank holiday weekend to demand Calheiros' impeachment or resignation.
The Carnival block party "Out Renan and the Guisers" was quickly improvised in Rio de Janeiro on Ash Wednesday.
According to the event page on Facebook , the idea is simple:
Mask produced for the carnival block by Gustavo Fernochi.
Instructions: "Save the image to your computer.
At the time of printing, adjust the size of the paper.
Power will always be with the people!""
Make your own mask, bring your broom, compose marchinhas and send them to the organizers... use your creativity and come up with a way to manifest and have fun at the same time.
The idea is to innovate, educate, entertain, and most of all: to protest.
Revelers have not missed a samba beat, composing several satirical songs especially for the 2013 Carnival, such as Renan's Marchinha below.
With lyrics by Carlos Cabalini, it could well have been the soundtrack of the carnival block party of the 840,809 people who voted for Calheiros:
Oh Renan, poor Renan
You're not in the wrong
The blame lies with whoever thought
that in the Senate you belong
But who was it, who was it -
Which idiot elected you so unduly?
I know who it was, I know -
That idiot was yours truly.
Many other public events are being organized by the group Fora Renan Calheiros on Facebook, to culminate in major protests in several Brazilian cities and abroad on February 24.
Since legal proceedings against Calheiros in Supreme Federal Court "shall take a little while" - perhaps long enough for the senator's term to come to an end - the Senate may come to inspire the upcoming Dia do Basta , a series protests against political corruption to be held in more than 60 cities on April 19, 20, and 21. The creative English translation of Renan's Marchinha was kindly provided by Andrew Cummings
Interview with Chanphal Sok: Cambodian Writer and Songwriter · Global Voices
Going through highs and lows in life, Chanphal Sok found himself moving from place to place with his mother as a child to find enough to support themselves.
Writing about his tough life in his Khmer blog between Kampong Cham province and Kratie province, Chanphal has used his blog to write mostly about literature, short stories, short novels as well as Khmer history in Khmer language.
Sometimes, he uses Khmer self-effacing humor to write about his personal life.
In 2009, he won the third prize of the Nou Hach Literary awards for his 10-page short story ‘Kaboub Luy' or “Wallet”.
A graduate in English literature, although more popularly known as a song writer for many of the most famous contemporary Khmer songs, the 28-year-old song writer and prolific blogger presently works for Hang Meas production, one of the most popular music production companies in Cambodia.
Chanphal Sok“Life is a trade off.
After writing my life story in this blog, I’ve found that I’ve walked so far.
Life is a journey, and although it is not an eternity, it is long enough to live a proper life from now on," he said.
Global Voices writer Kounila Keo has the opportunity to email-interview Chanphal.
I think you have some connection wth Nou Hach literary award.
How many other awards have you got?
What do you think of the current situation of writers in Cambodia?
Writing comes natural to me.
I love writing, and this talent doesn't come to me that easy, as I have to keep polishing it all the time.
Since I've found that I can write, I start putting it into work.
Ever since, I've got a lot of support from audiences who listen to songs I write.
I had tried many times for Nou Hach Literary award, but finally I got a third place award for my short story: Wallet, in 2009, but several other awards were just certificates of excellence.
I think that very few people in Cambodia are interested in writing novels but there are more journalists than novel or story writers.
If you ask me to count names of Khmer novel writers, it is very hard to do so.
Unfortunately, Khmer people don't read a lot; therefore, not many people are interested in writing.
Compared to neighbouring countries, Cambodia doesn't produce a lot of locally-made books or movies, and even our cinemas are quite quiet.
I've seen that you've used Facebook and some other online platforms to publish your work?
What do you think about the online world today for a professional like you?
Even though I haven't been able to earn a dime from publishing my stories on Facebook or some online platforms like issuu.com, I am however happy when I get support from Khmer readers.
This is what I write for.
For my audiences.
So far I've met a lot of Khmer readers online, and I am delighted to be able to share much stuff with them on the Internet.
3.What do you think of the printing cost of paper books in Cambodia?
Do you think the online platform such as blog (wordpress/blogspot) and Issuu are useful for writers here?
Yes of course.
From the past until now, I've published several books which don't cost a lot, but it was hard to sell them.
The distribution among small book stores did not work, so those who wanted to buy them also found difficulty to do so.
Eventually, I lost a lot of money in the printing.
When I publish my stories on the Internet, I don't need to spend a single dollar on it, though I don't earn anything from it either.
Do you think the internet will soon become an important source for writers like you to publish your work?
I've always wanted to be a writer since I was little.
Growing up, I just want to share my thoughts with the rest of the world, so the online platform is the best choice for me to publish any story.
It comes to a point where you don't need to be a professional writer to publish your stories.
The Internet provides a very easy means to publish your articles, stories or novels and get a lot of following.
More and more Cambodian people are becoming online, so this is a positive sign for the growth of online readership.
When we didn't have the Internet in the past, we had to go and beg the printing company to publish our books, but now the Internet can replace the printing industry in some ways.
Nowadays, everyone just wants to write and share.
Nonetheless, I still love "paper" books, yet it is just that our country doesn't have a lot of book readers.
Some people who try to publish books fail a lot, but if I have a lot of money, I will try to publish books and put them at some book stores.
We need to strike a balance.
Would you like to recommend this to other writers?
I've used the Internet for several years now, and I don't mean to say that publishing books isn't recommended.
I would like to recommend that writers now start thinking about publishing their works online if they don't have money to pay for the printing cost.
When I first used WordPress, I published my stories on the blog right away.
With that said, I still strongly love paper books because they are like souvenirs which I can put in my book shelf, on the bed shelf.
They are different from e-books which come in millions, easy to download and read - modern and tiny in size, but they don't have a sentimental value like books.
Listening to Colours · Global Voices
In the last edition of the independent Sundance Film Festival which took place from the 17th to the 27th of January in the mountains outside Utah, Catalan filmmaker Rafel Duran received an unexpected surprise when he discovered his documentary had won the Focus Forward Filmmaker Competition.
‘Cyborg Foundation‘ tells the story of Neil Harbisson, one of the foundation’s first members who is also officially recognized as the first cyborg by the British government.
Harbisson was born with a visual condition known as achromatopsia, making it impossible for him to distinguish colours apart from black and white.
This visual artist and composer invented the Eyeborg together with the help of an electronic engineer. The eyeborg is similar to an antenna and helps to receive the frequencies that the colours emit and transform them into audible impulses that he receives through the bones in his ears.
Mariana Viada and Neil Harbisson from the Cyborg Foundation.
A second surprise is the fact that Neil is one third cyborg, a third Irish/British and a third Catalan.
He has lived in Mataró for many years and in 2010 set up the Cyborg Foundation there.
It now has a new home in Barcelona and is the first foundation promoting the use cybernetic devices and technology to enhance our senses.
Here we talk with Neil Harbisson, who has spoken at prestigious events like TED (video) and also with Mariana Viada, also from the foundation.
· Video snippet of the interview.
· Listen to the programme in mp3 .
· Or also from some local radios and online .
· You can download the the Internauta podcast from VilaWeb or iTunes .
The Internauta is broadcast on VilaWeb every Friday afternoon.
'Global Voices Can Help Explain Catalonia to the World' · Global Voices
Violeta Camarasa, editor of Global Voices Català. This article was originally published by the independent online journal Vilaweb .
We republish it with permission.
Interview with Violeta Camarasa, Global Voices Online's Catalan-language editor (Twitter) .
Although Global Voices published their first Catalan-language article , the project took a year to gain momentum.
Today, Global Voices Català publishes regularly, with all the rights and responsibilities as Global Voices' other language editions.
On Wednesday, February 27th, Barcelona's Pompeu Fabra University hosted a panel discussion between Saül Gordillo , Sílvia Cobo , Cristina Vaquer (Twitter) of the collaborative reporting network People's Witness , and Violeta Camarasa, editor of Global Voices Català.
Two Examples: Al Jazeera and The Washington Post
Global Voices Català has demonstrated over the past several months that it has the capacity to explain Catalonia to the world, supplementing the mainstream media's historical neglect of the region.
For instance:
1) Al Jazeera highlighted their coverage of Catalan politics in a The Stream show video about September 11th's million-person protest in the context of the growing rift between Catalonia and the Spanish Government.
In the video, The Stream's host thanks Global Voices Català for calling the team's attention to the issue with an article published days before and also through Twitter (see minutes 11.33 and 28.19).
In a blog post about the Cafè amb Llet affair, The Washington Post cited Global Voices articles. The blog post was later revised after Ms Camarasa critiqued the piece.
What is Global Voices Català's ultimate purpose?
Global Voices Català is one piece of Global Voices Online's international puzzle.
We function like a network, and within this network, every language edition has a double-mission. First, translating into that language (in our case, Catalan) to explain to its audience all of the ideas and polemics that charge worldwide online debate. It's also our duty to explain to the world the topics of debate on the Catalan-speaking web.
You often discuss the concept of online debates…
Sure, and they're complex. These debates can circle around questions that arise directly online; they can also be online conversations about current, offline events.
In this way, we are able to offer the world a unique vision of what's going on in Catalonia, supplementing what is usually presented by the mainstream media.
Can Global Voices therefore help explain Catalonia's secessionist movement to the world?
Of course!
Just consider that last year, the world's vision of Catalonia was constructed exclusively by media outlets based in or heavily influenced by Madrid.
Global Voices is a fresh, direct window into Catalan current events.
And we can explain a lot more than the sovereignty process as well: for instance, the drama of evictions as a result of the economic crisis, corruption, and all other issues relevant to contemporary Catalan society.
One issue doesn't negate the other and they are all related to the country we long for.
So what will we find online at Global Voices Català?
We often publish analyses that transcend conventional editorial agendas.
We work exhaustively to produce a large volume of content, perhaps larger than any one person can consume. We write a lot about Catalan society so that other language versions may translate it, and we translate what other editions of Global Voices have produced, which results in diverse stories from around the world.
It's important to provide thorough filters so that readers can find articles about the languages, regions, and countries that interest them.
Has building the Catalan edition been tolling?
Well, Global Voices was founded in 2005 and was initially an (exclusively) English-language publication that focused on stories emanating from the developing world.
Global Voices linguistic domain eventually expanded to Spanish and French and today includes thirty languages.
The Catalan edition was founded in 2010 but took a while to gain momentum.
By 2011 we were publishing regularly, but it wasn't until 2012 that Global Voices Català was producing a large enough body of content to leave 'BETA' phase and be considered a full-fledged edition of Global Voices.
Engaging with Global Voices is also a way to get connected with the world...
Indeed. All of the content we produce for Catalan readers about worldwide conversations is extremely valuable.
Moreover, we — that is, the GV team — are present in that content.
Historically, international news has been disseminated by larger media outlets and to a lesser extent, diplomacy.
Global Voices is one of the networks that has helped to break that down.
Also, Global Voices allows readers to engage with the journalists and bloggers who produce the content.
The communication is direct.
And how does the Catalan team work?
Right now, we're about twenty volunteers, but in recent weeks we've received more applications than usual.
Hopefully, the presentation at Pompeu Fabra University will help us grow even more.
We do the double work that I talked about earlier. We translate from other language editions, often adding a little extra context for our readers, and we report on the conversations that define the Catalan blogosphere.
It's important to note that we're not talking about blogs and tweets by politicians, journalists and celebrities.
In fact, it's quite the contrary.
We want to give visibility to the voices of people outside the mainstream media's spotlight.
In this regard we want volunteers with "journalistic" backgrounds, but that's not to say that you need to be a professional journalist to collaborate.
Google Debuts Crowd Sourced Map on North Korea · Global Voices
Through Google Maps, with the click of a mouse, you can travel the world; see the most remote places on earth, and even explore Antartica with panoramic imagery.
But one place that has always been unavailable, even through Google Maps, is the hermit kingdom: North Korea.
This has now changed.
On Jan 29, 2013 Google revealed its new crowd-sourced map of North Korea, just three weeks after Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, visited the country.
Google's North Korea map, though it did exist before, was mostly blank.
But now, you can see drastic changes in the map (photos of before and after).
Image of North Korean capital in revised Google Map.
Jayanth Mysore, a senior manager of the Google Map Maker project, wrote about the initiative on the official Google Maps blog.
(For the Korean version, click here)
we’re constantly working to add more detailed map data in areas that traditionally have been mostly blank.
For a long time, one of the largest places with limited map data has been North KoreaTo build this map, a community of citizen cartographers came together in Google Map Maker to make their contributions such as adding road names and points of interest.
Instant web reactions have followed. @romanticity wrote :
North Korea's Google map quality was really poor before, but now they provide a detailed map.
It would be useful for defectors and refugees.
@9it added :
I've never even thought of browsing a detailed map of North Korea, but now I am doing it and it feels somehow wonderful and strange.
@leejik wonders about the significance of such move:
North Korea map appears quite well on Google Maps.
Does this signal a start of openness of this nation?
Image of North Korean capital in Google Map Satellite view, Screen captured.
@premist pointed out the difference of two Korea's map graphic quality:
A Vector map is unavailable in South Korea because of legal issues (or perhaps because Google is too lazy to make one?).
But it has now become available in North Korea's Pyongyang.
There are indeed legal restrictions in providing high-resolution map in South Korea. @leftliber is paraniod about other law, South Korea's notorious National Security law that censors almost anything related to North Korea to the point of jailing a South Korean Twitterer for retweeting North Korean tweets:
Oh, North Korea now appears on Google Maps.
Is there any chance I may be accused of violating the national security law just because I looked at this map?
(Seriously, am I living in a situation where I have to worry about this?)
Some net users, such as @kyeolgun, were rather pessimistic and brought a worrisome, yet valid scenario :
North Korea offering map data to Google — does that means that it has already turned most of its military facilities underground?
(If it were true), it could be scary.
India at the Forefront of One Billion Rising · Global Voices
The United Nations defines violence against women as "any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or mental harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life."
One in three women will experience violence in her lifetime, which means one billion women alive at this moment will be facing some form of violence which is a more prevalent problem than any other disease, according to U.N statistics.
‘One Billion Rising’ was an event conceived by Eve Ensler, who is famous for her play ‘The Vagina Monologues’ 15 years ago.
Women take part in the One Billion Rising Campaign at Guwahati Assam, India.
Image by Reporter#21795 Copyright Demotix (14/2/2013)
India is one among the worst in G20 countries for many forms of violence against women including child marriages, female feticides, honor killings, war, domestic violence and suicides.
In some cases, their deaths are not even counted for.
P.Sainath writes:
One group that is not counted is women farmers who do the bulk of the work in the fields, and are driven to suicide by poverty and loans they could never repay.
They are not considered farmers because the land is not in their name, and in most States they do not have land rights.
Reports from the online and mainstream media show Indians participating in huge numbers across the country and India trending at the forefront of the global campaign.
One Billion Rising: Rise to support Chanchal: On 21/10/2012, four men threw acid on Chanchal, 19 and her sister,15 while they were asleep.
This was a direct result of Chanchal’s bold move to oppose continuous sexual harassment by these men.
In the above video, Chanchal’s family has given a public statement seeking justice from Chief Minister Mr. Nitish Kumar and DIG Weaker Sections, Arvind Pandey.
Indianhomemaker had pages of pictures on Guragon rising.
On the same day in Kerala a woman was harassed by eve teasers and she took it upon herself to thrash the eve teasers.
Amrita, the brave girl tells the media that she would have felt worthless if she didn’t react when everybody else was silent, especially after participating in the one billion rising event.
Every now and then, the rally would pause and the women and men would laugh raucously for a minute or so.
It's all about freedom of expression and reclaiming public space, said an organiser..
Image by Lois Kapila.
(14/2/2013)
Piyasree Dasguptaa on First Post comments that the campaign could turn into a fancy carnival:
For example, the NCRB report points out that city or town where the number of crimes went up the most in 2011, almost by 87 percent, is Asansol – an industrial town in Bengal, far away from Kolkata where the One Billion Rising campaign was unfurling in full force.
So what’s the answer?
Should we stop protest – of the elaborate kind that uses the most popular aspects of our culture?
No.
But we also have to find a way to make it not look like a carnival that not everyone has a taste for.
Kamayani writes on her blog why the event in Mumbai is unique:
In Mumbai what it is unique about this is event is being ‘ most diverse and inclusive”, we have women representing variosy marginalized sections of our society- the disabled, dalit, sexual minorities, muslims ,participating to say no to violence, and to also give a message that women with different needs have different rights
Subhajit das writes about why he thinks such gender exclusive movements might not find the desired results especially in Kolkata:
Gender exclusive movements, are in essence, problematic, because a) they fail to recognize that a particular social problem is limited to (a "definitive" interpretation of) one gender.
In this case, the organizers seem to be in denial of the fact that sexual violence in Calcutta is not limited only to women, or rather, the concept of women that has been biologically "pigeonholed", thus categorized as the female sex, or those identifying as women; judging from personal experiences, "males" of varying gender expressions get sexually harassed, too.
A picture with a different perspective to the rising was circulating on Facebook with the tag line:
Because "sex workers also have rights, just like you and I"
Balu Menon writes on Facebook:
I also agree..Women's awakening is the only way to have better MEN!
Jo Stroebel shared a picture of women drumming for the one billion rising event in Kochi:
Students of Kamla Nehru College in an enthralling choreographed performance in the OBR event at Parliament Street, New Delhi.
Rajeev R Singh.
Below are some interesting tweets about the One billion Rising campaign across the country:
‏@EsteKelvaredhel (Likla): Mumbai rose in a way @eveensler would have been proud!
‏@The_AK_84: (Ashutosh Kumar ‏@The_AK_84) OneBillionRising looks like a success only on twitter and virtual world.
Not more then 1000 ppl at spot in Delhi including media, organisers
‏@RuchiraSingh (Ruchira Singh): Women of age groups and from all walks of life are walking in.
Some greeting each other 'Happy OBR', delhi is celebrating #onebillionrising!
‏@tetisheri (Lily ) Headed to parliament street.
Blank noise doing a clothes installation to say "I never ask for it". #onebillionrising #delhi
shahid ‏@shahidnissar(shahid ‏@shahidnissar) @sardesairajdeep sir its day 6 of curfew sponsored by state, kashmir cannot be a part of #onebillionrising @BDUTT ‏@davidpakh (David Pakhuongte) One billion rising : kashmir to kanyakumari, kutch to kolkata. Where is the North East on your map? #onebillionrising #ndtv
‏@caslet (Cassandra Wright):
Was just at the #onebillionrising rally in Chennai, India.
Great to feel the solidarity across the globe.
It's horrible what women here face
‏@parveendusanj (Parveen Dusanj) #OneBillionRising in India we have women that inflict violence (physical & mental) on other women.
That's the worst kind.
Must STOP
Zena's message on twitter sums up the rising:
‏@zenacostawrites (Zena Costa‏) #OneBillionRising Let's create a society where women are not killed for honor, but honored for life ! #JusticeForWomen #India #VDAY #VAW
Iran Sent One Monkey Into Space and Another Came Back · Global Voices
Aftab the monkey before launch into the space.
Photo: IRNA
Bloggers and news sources have challenged claims by the Iranian government that they successfully launched a monkey into space and retrieved the animal alive on January 28, 2013.
Official images — supposedly depicting the monkey before and after the launch — do not appear to match up, casting further doubt and raising suspicions that the launch may have been fake.
Here is the official footage recorded from a national IRIB Channel 1 broadcast:
Many users on the popular Iranian link-sharing site, Balatarin, say the regime is lying and compare photos of the monkey from before the launch with a photo of the one claimed to have been retrieved from the capsule upon return, highlighting physical dissimilarities between the two.
Here they are:
As seen from the lead photo of this post, as well as the one above (right) the first monkey has a mole on its right eyebrow and has grey and shorter hair around the face, while the second monkey one has no mole and dark brown hair around the face.
Netizens reactions to this report range from total skepticism to conspiracy theories:
Iranian blogger 'Hagh mosalam ma' ('Our definite right') takes a satirical approach, and draws parallels between the alleged space mission with the 2009 Iranian presidential election that many consider was rigged.
He also jokes:
The monkey that was launched into space was buddy, the one that returned was acting weirdly.
Using Photoshop you can send monkeys to Mars, not to mention just outside the atmosphere.
Amir Farshad writes in his Blog 'Hot Chocolate' that:
Mahmood Ahmadinejad gave the nation more good news this week on the advent of Fajr festivities : "We launched a monkey into space and managed to perform an aesthetic surgery to remove his mole up there, and then returned him in good health to the arms of the Supreme Leader."
Japan's Conservation Groups Fight to Preserve Wetlands · Global Voices
Damp and marshy, they seem boring and barren.
But contrary to their appearance, tidal flats or coastal wetlands are rich in biodiversity and help maintain balance in the water cycle.
For Japan, which hosts 46 of the 2,098 registered wetlands worldwide , their conservation is essential.
Concern for Japanese precious wetlands is international, with Japan belonging to the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance treaty, better known as "the Ramsar Convention", which promotes conservation and sustainable use of wetlands.
But community organizations in Japan down on the ground and deep in the mud are the ones who have led the fight in recent years to protect these valuable ecosystems from the encroaching threat of land development and pollution.
A changing landscape
Wajiro Tidal Flat, image from wikimedia commons, photo taken on 2009 (CC BY SA 3.0)
The Save Wajiro Tidal Flat Association , based in Fukuoka city, has fought an uphill battle for more than two decades to preserve the resources of their hometown, the site of the Wajiro Tidal Flat.
The Wajiro Tidal Flat, located in the closed-off section of Hakata Bay, is the largest tidal flat in the Sea of ​​Japan.
The flat is also an important stopover and wintering ground for migratory birds.
The landscape of the once tranquil tidal flat in Hakata Bay began to rapidly change around 1994 with the construction of an artificial island.
Although Japan's bubble economy was bursting at that time, public officials made development a priority despite doubts over the environmental assessment of the project.
The resulting change in tidal stream has deteriorated the water cycle, with a part of the flat corrupted by algae.
The tidal flat was selected by Japan's Ministry of Environment as a candidate for designation as a Ramsar Wetland of International Importance in 2004, but designation was never made official.
'Wajiro Tidal Flat at Sunset' KIRIE-Cutting Paper Art by Hiroko Kusuda. Used with permission.
Hiroko Kusuda, a paper cut-out artist who launched The Save Wajiro Tidal Flat Association in 1988, detailed the practical as well as the poetic significance of the tidal flat in an article in Radix, the newsletter of Kyushu University:
The gentle waves of Wajiro tidal flat let children play in the water, bestow the people with a wealth of wild seafood, fish and shellfish, octopus and shrimp, and seaweed throughout the year.
The tidal flat has been here to purify the water by taking care of the creatures of the tidal flat and shallow water and nursing young fish and young shelled sea creatures.
The Wajiro Tidal Flat has always been the cradle of life.
It has nurtured my mind and body.
Beauty, grandeur and rigor of nature provide us an emotional richness.
My relationship with the Wajiro Tidal Flat led me to creative activities.
Now as an adult, the tidal flat still gives me peace of mind.
'Spring in Wajiro Tidal Flat' KIRIE-Cutting Paper Art by Hirorko Kusuda used with permission
Continuing with its efforts, the Save Wajiro Tidal Flat Organization conducts water and sand quality studies every month and organizes popular seashore cleanup events for local residents.
Local elementary school students are invited regularly to observe the tidal flat to supplement their lessons.
E.I., who helped oversee the elementary school students, wrote on the Save Wajiro Tidal Flat Association's blog about how the organization piqued the children's curiosities about the wetland:
After our staff explained about birds, shells and seaweeds that children observed by themselves today, the students asked questions such as the type of bird feathers they found or why crab burrow is in reed bed.
Some small yellow and pink shells found by the students couldn't be identified. It became our homework to figure out what they are.
On examination, we found out they are Moerella rutila.
Today was the last session of Wajiro tidal flat observation for the fourth grade children.
But at the end of February there's an annual presentation of the year’s observation by children in school.
It is our pleasure to visit school for that every year.
We, members of The Save Wajiro Tidal Flat Association, are looking forward to seeing their presentation.
The ebb and flow of conservation work
In 2011, the Ramsar Convention celebrated its 40th anniversary.
Reflecting on the years gone by, Japan Wetlands Action Network advisor Satoshi Kobayashi mused on JAWAN REPORT about how Japan's long-held belief that it could master nature might finally begin to change.
The Japan Wetlands Action Network has fought to conserve wetlands on a national and international scale since 1991:
For a relatively long time until now, the Japanese have been trying to control nature by using advanced technologies.
We have been clinging to the idea that we could do that.
But, in 2011, that assumption was smashed.
We realized that technology could go out of control and incidentally, could produce a tragedy.
Also we realized that nature, too, could go beyond anyone can handle.
If we pause and think, if we shift to make bold initiatives of change for energy policy, national planning and public works, if we demonstrate a role model by doing so, we could change the world by taking such action.
A year later, the organization attended the Ramsar Conference of the Contracting Parties (COP11) in Bucharest, Romania.
After participating in the conference, Mr. Kobayashi explained that now is not the time for conservationists to pat themselves on the back.
Progress in tidal flat preservation is a matter of perspective:
While clerical procedures such as operating rules of the meeting progressed, Ms. Heather the Chairman of Scientific and Technical Review Panel (STRP) told us a story at the end of the morning session.
She showed us her daughter's photo taken in front of convention hall of COP10.
She took her youngest daughter at the age of 8 to the conference to let her know what her mother's doing for work.
She asked her daughter to listen in the conference sitting at the back of a room only for a while near the end of the meeting.
Then, in the flight back from Korea Ms. Heather asked her daughter what she thought about the conference.
The daughter said “I think I got the importance of wetlands conservation but I have worried now that wetlands might not still be here by the time I am an adult.” she continued “Because it seems the conservation of wetlands barely makes any progress...”
Ms. Heather said she had not been able to find anything to say back since she had thought the meeting was fruitful.
Children are sharp, aren’t they?
The Japan Wetlands Action Network promotes a nationwide campaign, Wetlands, Tidal Flats Campaign Day , every spring, organizing a variety of events, such as nature observation, discussions, and art exhibitions to help raise public awareness about the conservation of wetland biodiversity.
Registration for participating groups is now open .
Levitating Around Singapore · Global Voices
Jayden Tan and Jeff Cheong have been ‘levitating’ around Singapore and they are even teaching students about the secrets of levitation photography.
Their project has been gaining attention in Singapore and many people have already noted the creativity of their photos.
We take this levitating photography seriously.
Its all done without any cables, its all sweat and passion.
No photoshop no touch ups.
We only colour correct the photo to create a certain mood okies :-)
Jayden and Jeff have given us the permission to share their wonderful photos to the readers of Global Voices.
Below is an email interview which we conducted with them.
What inspired you to start this project?
When did you begin this project?
Natsumi Hayashi made levitation photography famous with her gravity-defying shots.
And since then many people from Asia to the world joined in the craze and started sharing cool photos of themselves 'floating' whilst going about in their daily (mundane) activities.
We started the Facebook page sometime in July last year.
What are the reactions you received from the local community?
There were several groups in Singapore shooting levitation photos.
We are all connected by the same passion and it was great that the local papers did a coverage of this special interest group on front page!
What are your favorite photos from the project?
We like the latest album for last year's Christmas.
We collaborated with dancers, food bloggers and some of our friends.
It was an epic shoot with such a large group.
The theme was Christmas in tropics and we think its got the magic to spread the Christmas cheer.
The other one we like is the album shot at Singapore Changi Airport.
We were lucky to get permission to shoot at the transit area.
The airport has a beautiful setting and very interesting backdrop like the butterfly garden, kinetic rain sculpture and a roof top swimming pool.
Plans for this year with regard to the Levitation project
We will continue the fun and creative new stories and challenge ourselves to outdo the previous album.
Of late we found the opportunity to share our work with young students.
And it fun side of things do have some light-hearted life skills to impart.
Levitation photography requires alot of hardwork to capture the perfect shot.
Lessons of perseverance, tenacity and perfection comes through and we share these in ad hoc engagement.
The session ends with hands-on lesson where they get a sense of the work.
But when they see the result, the pride and awe kicks in and it gives these kids a sense of achievement to see themselves doing the impossible.
A Fistful of Bloggers: Russian MP Pressured to Resign · Global Voices
A crudely photoshopped image of Vladimir Pekhtin in front of an ocean-front property being passed around RuNet.
Anonymous image freely distributed online.
As head of the Ethics Committee, Pekhtin has long been openly hostile to the three Just Russia MPs who also happen to be active members of the opposition — the Gudkovs (father and son), and Ilya Ponomarev.
Last summer Pekhtin accused them of instigating the crowd at a May 6, 2012 rally that turned violent, prompting Dmitry Gudkov to invent the term "pekhting" to describe such political pressure.
This history and Pekhtin's position made accusations against him even more biting.
Although Navalny got most of the credit for breaking the story, the detailed minutia of real estate contracts for Pekhtin's two apartments and a plot of land in Miami was originally worked out by a newcomer to online anti-corruption activism.
The legwork was done by Dr. Z, a physicist blogging from Spain , who started his blog last spring , stating:
My hobby - anti-corruption investigations.
Before he published the Pekhtin story, Dr. Z dabbled in substantiating plagiarism accusations against several Duma deputies.
Then, on February 6, he posted detailed guidelines on how to track down foreign property owned by Russian politicians, using Western public domain records and registries.
Pekhtin appears to have been the first of Dr. Z's forays into such research.
Curiously, while Navalny thanked Dr. Z for giving him a "heads up" on Pekhtin, he never made it clear that around 80% of the materials he posted were first found and published by Dr. Z. Navalny also didn't link to the original post.
Dr. Z doesn't seem to mind — at least he hasn't publicly complained.
While Dr. Z's allegiances are unclear (one blogger has interpreted some of his interviews to mean that he is backed by former Finance Minister Alexey Kudrin and a group of government officials hostile to the siloviki), his results are impressive.
Pekhtin's resignation came as a surprise to many, including Navalny, who complained upon seeing the news:
I'm a little sorry for the $189 dollars that we are going to pay for the delivery, notarization, an forwarding of the original documents on his real estate.
They will arrive to Moscow tomorrow, but now they won't be needed (or maybe they will).
It would have been a grand inquest.
Most, including publicist Dmitry Olshansky, predicted that nothing would come of the accusations — Pekhtin didn't do anything criminal, just unethical, and Russian politicians tend to protect their own.
Olshansky compared Russia to a third world country:
But publishing clever exposes in New York is one thing, and doing the same somewhere in Africa is another.
If in New York the whistle-blower will achieve shaming, trials, and resignations for his subjects, in Africa he will spend a long while affixing the posters to palms and baobab trees, and then state supporters with stockings on their heads will come and take him away who knows where.
But, of course, a resignation was precisely what happened.
Perhaps Pekhtin was simply not important enough to protect — after all, by the standards of corrupt Russian officials two million dollars worth of real estate is practically peanuts.
Or maybe, Putin, who has already distanced himself from the ruling United Russia party, is himself gearing up to corner the market on fighting graft.
Pekhtin's sworn enemy, MP Dmitry Gudkov, was not particularly happy with that idea, or with how the deed was done, tweeting darkly:
By the way, I'm not that happy with Pekhtin's resignation.
The decision was made for him in the Kremlin anyway.
I am against stripping office without trial and investigation.
Even for Pekhtin.
It won't end with Pekhtin's resignation.
I think it will end with the parliament dissolving
DemVybor's second in command, Kirill Shulika, disagreed , thinking that its more likely that Putin is finally becoming embroiled in faction-based elite infighting:
There's an opinion that now Putin will give up anyone who gets caught, but I don't think so.
More likely, if you take the Duma, there will be a balance between "United Russia" and the opposition, and if you take the executive branch, the victims will come from inter-clan warfare.
Regardless of the upshot, there is one bright thought: apparently, even in Russia, internet campaigns against corrupt officials aren't completely useless.
For Russia's Comics, it's Raining Meteors · Global Voices
Early this morning, high above the city of Chelyabinsk, a meteorite burst through the atmosphere and possibly crashed into the Earth.
At the current moment, Russian authorities are still searching for where the meteorite may have landed, but what's certain is that it caused several sonic booms that shattered windows and other items as it fell.
By the evening, Chelyabinsk Oblast officials reported almost a thousand people injured, mostly from broken glass, including 204 children.
Scores of amateur videos have flooded YouTube.
Many clips feature the crash's immediate aftermath, namely the trail of thick smoke left hanging in the sky.
Because many Russians operate dashboard cameras in their cars (mainly for insurance purposes), there is also a massive supply of live footage of the meteorite falling.
Earlier today, popular photoblogger Ilya Varlamov posted a large collection of such videos to his LiveJournal blog.
Despite the property damage and injuries resulting from today's disaster, RuNet users have been more eager than ever to crack jokes and spread memes.
While comic relief is a natural response to any tragedy, the fact that the meteorite landed in Chelyabinsk carries a certain readymade humor for Russians, given that the city is known, celebrated, and mocked for being a particularly harsh and poor corner of the country.
The Chelyabinsk jokes are a sovereign kingdom in the world of Russian humor—enshrined in the segue to the Ivan Dulin segment of the television show Nasha Russia .
One example of these jokes would be: "the Chelyabinsk subway is so tough, it travels underground without tunnels."
While the joke formula is hardly new, RuNet users have managed to amuse each other with surprising success .
A fake account representing Russia's Foreign Ministry, for example, tweeted :
The Chelyabinsk zinc factory is so tough, it mines ore directly from space.
With the nature of the anecdote and its punchline understood, other Twitter users spread the following implied version:
Chelyabinsk rain is so tough… #meteorite
Some public figures also risked a stab at levity.
Anna Veduta, press secretary for anti-corruption blogger Alexey Navalny, reposted an e-card from Navalny, which read :
The meteorite's inhabitants watched in terror as Chelyabinsk neared.
In a spoof of the Russia parliament's draft legislation to ban "homosexual propaganda," some Twitter users propagated the phony news that the Duma will soon adopt a "ban on meteorites," implying that the government's campaign against gays is as irrational as outlawing natural disasters.
Journalist Dmitri Olshansky lamented the state of the nation, writing on Facebook, "poor, poor Russia, it's always the same thing," in connection to a report by Lenta.ru that claims some Chelyabinsk residents are breaking their own windows to qualify for state compensation awaiting meteorite victims.
In addition to all this, RuNet users have booted up their (probably pirated) copies of Adobe Photoshop and composed a series of photoshop, or "fotozhaba" (literally "photo-toad") mock-ups of pictures of the meteorite as it crossed the Chelyabinsk sky.
Some of them are entirely apolitical (such as a running gag that the meteorite resembles a round of Angry Birds or the plot of the 1998 film Armageddon), and others poke fun at Vladimir Putin (and his cult of machismo) or even Pussy Riot member Nadezhda Tolokonnikova.
Included below are some of the better disseminated, entertaining examples of the "fotozhaba" reaction to the Chelyabinsk meteorite.
A humorous weather report for Chelyabinsk.
An anonymous image widely circulated online.
Putin riding a meteorite.
An anonymous image widely circulated online.
The "Russian Postal Service" has finally made its DELIVERY.
The Chelyabinsk meteorite compared to the popular game Angry Birds.
A Pussy Riot member is thinking "The Virgin missed", with the word Chelyabinsk next to the meteorite in the background.
The caption reads, "An Interrupted Prayer.
An imprecise result."
Referring to Pussy Riot "prayer" to banish Putin.
Kurds Caught Between Islamists and the PKK in Syria · Global Voices
As part of our collaboration with Syria Deeply we are cross-posting a series of articles that capture civilian voices caught in the crossfire, along with perspectives on the conflict from writers around the world.
Azaz, Syria: The Turkey-based Kurdish Workers’ Party (PKK), and its Syrian political wing, the Democratic Union Party (PYD), have stumbled into a precarious situation. They are now administering a string of towns and cities along the Turkish border after the Syrian army handed the PKK control of the territory last summer.
What should have been a dream come true for Kurds—who have long been discriminated against in Baathist Syria and aspired to have an independent state—quickly devolved into an even more oppressive replica of their lives in Assad’s Syria.
Bewar Mustafa, second left, Shawqi Othman, second right, and other Saladin Brigade members.
Credit: Mohammed Sergie
“We can’t open our mouths,” said Walato, a pro-democracy activist from Jinderes, a Kurdish town north of Aleppo.
“We have less freedom under the PKK than we had under the Assad regime.”
For activists like Walato who live in PKK-controlled towns, coexisting with the new rulers means operating with even more secrecy than under the Assad regime.
Kurdish towns like Afrin, Amouda and Kobani came out in large protests early in the Syria revolution, but these displays of defiance and solidarity with the rest of the country have become rare.
“The PKK even erased the word ‘Yasqut’ from the walls,” Walato said.
“Activists are often harassed for nonpolitical efforts like organizing humanitarian aid.”
(For more on the Kurds in Syria click here for a recent study by the International Crisis Group and here, here for two reports from the Henry Jackson Society).
Commanders of the Saladin Brigade, which fights in Aleppo, weren’t surprised when the PKK ended up controlling Kurdish towns.
The PKK was the only group with the arms and organization able to fill the vacuum.
But there was a reason it was so organized.
Colonel Shawqi Othman, who heads the Saladin Brigade, said the PKK was supported by Hafez al Assad, in order to fracture Syria’s Kurds and to pressure Turkey by bolstering a secessionist current within Kurdish politics.
There is also a sectarian reason why the Assad regime backs the PKK, according to Othman.
Most of the PKK’s leadership hails from a rarified minority: Alawite Kurds.
Abdullah Ocalan, one of the PKK’s founders who was based in Syria and is now in a Turkish prison, is an Alawite, Othman said.
Kurds make up more than 10% of Syria’s 23 million citizens, and the vast majority of them adhere to a moderate version of Sunni Islam.
Although PKK officials deny ties to the Assad regime, its top spokesman was cagey when asked where their weapons come from, according to a Washington-based researcher who covers the group closely and met with its leadership recently.
Syria Deeply wasn’t able to interview PKK officials on the ground inside Syria.
Though Kurdish activists and rebels say they are stifled and threatened by the PKK, they have decided not to confront the group in order to avoid an internecine conflict among the Kurds.
Tensions remain high among armed factions, however.
Captain Bewar Mustafa, the first Kurdish officer to defect from the Assad regime, and a founder of the Saladin Brigade that fights in Aleppo, says he’s on the PKK’s hit list, as are some of his comrades.
Othman says his group will try to avert bloodshed with its ethnic brethren and are willing to wait for the local Kurdish population to turn against the PKK.
It might not be too long now.
Walato says that the excesses of the PKK, such as enacting taxes or tying prisoners to poles in town squares for days at a time, are denting the group’s popularity.
Still, the threat from extremist Islamists has forced Kurds to be cautious of withdrawing support for their most powerful militia.
“If the choice is between Jabhat al-Nusra or the PKK, I will always choose the PKK,” said Mohammed Suleiman, an activist who works closely with the Saladin Brigade and who calls the PKK mercenaries and criminals.
This isn’t to say Kurds don’t have some admiration for the Islamists.
Indeed, the Saladin Brigade has fought with some groups.
Sharvan Ibesh, a doctor who operates surgery centers in Aleppo and near the Turkish border, credited Jabhat al-Nusra with maintaining momentum and repelling regime counterattacks in Aleppo.
“The Islamist brigades are carrying the heavy load in the fight,” he said. (Corrections: An earlier version of this article incorrectly reported that the string of towns in Syria are controlled by the U.S. and the PKK., and also stated that Ocalan was Syrian.
The Catalan Association for Scientific Communication, the Spanish Association of Scientific Communication and the Society for the Progression of Critical Thinking have started an Internet campaign via online petition platform Change.org asking for scientific accuracy in La Vanguardia, one of the widest circulated Catalan newspapers and part of the Grupo Godó.
So far they have collected 826 signatures.
The petition, which is in the form of a letter addressed to the editor of La Vanguardia Josep Rovirosa, demands "not only respect for science but above all quality journalism, whether scientific, specialised or of a general nature" .
Under Pressure, Spain Opens Door to Foreclosure Reform · Global Voices
This article is part of our special news coverage Europe in Crisis.
"We have wrestled out an important victory today.
Social media has been ablaze in recent days leaving one thing for certain: the victory is ours and ours alone."
A Plataforma de Afectados por la Hipoteca (PAH) spokesperson said these words recently in Barcelona to crowds gathered in front of the Popular Party's (PP-the governing party) headquarters in Madrid. For years, the PAH has lead a public effort in the fight against mortgage-based evictions in Spain.
To the surprise of many, minutes before the vote the Congressional majority announced it would not block the Popular Legislative Initiative (ILP) proposed by the PAH, which sought to modify the legislation regarding Spanish mortgages.
The annoucement was met by a resounding "Yes we can!" from PAH supporters on the ground, on social media networks and in Madrid's Congressional hall, from where a few members of the PAH were expelled.
In the end, the vote was nearly unanimous with 333 voting in favor of the ILP.
Only one, from the PP, abstained.
The bill (which mandates that the property be the repayment of the debt in full, that bank owned homes be used for public housing, and suspends evictions) garnered nearly 1.5 million signatures in support in a petition that circulated Spanish territory.
The number of signatures collected in support of the new law.
Photo taken by @tomstomkitrur.
Members of the PP, who hold an absolute majority, had previously announced their intent to block the bill while the minority parliamentary groups expressed their support.
This Storify post chronicles their opinions expressed on Twitter, collected by the citizen platform Qué hacen los diputados .
The PP finally backed down after enormous public pressure and PAH's creative campaign, #ILPescrache, inspired by the Argentine protests and launched last Sunday.
Also, recently, a retired couple from Mallorca committed suicide after learning they would lose their home.
While the numbers are not clear, the PAH estimates that more than one third of Spain's suicides are linked to evictions.
The #ILPescrache campaign utilized all available resources in requesting PP members to move beyond party lines and vote in support of the ILP.
Citizens contacted representatives through Twitter (made available here) and Facebook accounts, via email, or by telephone.
The hashtags #ILPoALaCalle, #ILPesDemocracia, #PPcriminales, and #ImPAHrables became Trending Topics in Spain.
The website Querido diputado no desahuciado automatically sent tweets to parliamentarians asking: "Will you vote for the ILP or do you prefer to perpetuate evictions?"
Another campaign, Oiga.me, sent mass email messages.
According to the group's numbers, in two days more than 7,000 people sent nearly one million messages to PP members.
In this Pastebin are a list of the campaigns in support of ILP.
Here is one of the photos of the Moncloa, the government's presidential headquarters, that has been widely circulated: "The person who lives in this house has not fulfilled his obligations in 15 months. When will he be evicted?"
Photo by @elpadrecorajede.
Campaigns in support of the approval of the ILP start this Saturday in 46 different cities across the country under the slogan "for the right to a home and the fight against financial genocide."
The PAH has won the first battle, but has yet to overcome the entire parliamentary process. This article is part of our special news coverage Europe in Crisis.
Videos from "One Billion Rising" Global Protests for Women's Rights · Global Voices
Photo of the flashmob on Waisenhausplatz in Bern, Switzerland
Every third woman falls victim to violence in her lifetime.
On February 14, 2013 thousands of people all over the world protested against these daily acts of violence with dance though flashmobs and other artistic events.
Under the motto "One Billion Rising" they protested on behalf of the one billion women in the world, who are beaten or raped during their lifetime, according to the United Nations. Photo of a flashmob on the Polyterrasse at the ETH in Zürich, Switzerland
More than 13,000 organisations in 200 countries took part in this global protest.
Below, we present some videos from February 14.
Flashmob in Bern, Switzerland:
The organisation "United Societies of Balkans" recorded a video of men and women from around the world, telling "One Billion Rising" why they were on the street on February 14:
NDTV reported from Mumbai, India:
The following dance was rehearsed and performed by girls of "New Light", an NGO operating in the red light district of Calcutta, India:
Video from Khartoum, Sudan:
Stop-Motion-Film from São Paulo, Brazil:
Flashmob in Bali, Indonesia:
#Wikimodernism: Catalan Modernism, from the Classroom to the Web · Global Voices
Upper exterior of la Casa Batlló in Barcelona, designed by Antoni Gaudí between 1904 and 1906.
Photograph by Bernard Gagnon via the Wikimedia Commons.
Art history students in Barcelona are trading in traditional homework to share their learning about Catalan Modernism, or modernisme in Catalan, with the world.
If you have ever visited Barcelona, you will remember the colorful and curvilinear architecture of Antoni Gaudí’s fantastical buildings.
Gaudí is essentially the crown jewel of the region's art, and the foundation of this organic and dreamy aesthetic is the political and cultural revolutionary movement that sought to transform Catalan society at the turn of the twentieth century.
Artistically, modernisme was an eclectic movement inspired by similar currents from other European countries, such as French Art Nouveau, but was nevertheless charged with a nationalist sensibility that has given it a unique personality.
Façade of la Casa Macaya, designed by Josep Puig i Cadafalch in 1901.
Photograph by Mutari via the Wikimedia Commons.During the first semester of the academic year 2012-2013, more than one hundred art history students from the University of Barcelona produced quality Wikipedia articles instead of completing traditional course work, under the supervision of six teachers and researchers belonging to the GRACMON , the group of research for contemporary art and design at the University of Barcelona.
They have created and edited more than a hundred articles pertaining to Catalan Modernism so far.
The perfect alliance
The proposal came from Àlex Hinojo (@Kippelboy), active #glamwiki member, an international group of wikimedians who work in order to increase ties between cultural institutions and the free knowledge network.
Besides being one of the most active wikipedians, Hinojo is the person behind the project @CatalanMuseums, offering information in English about the museums of Barcelona and Catalonia.
Esther Solé (@EstherSole), Art historian, wikipedian and coordinator of the Viquimodernisme project, wrote in an article published by Wikimedia, how this unprecedented proposal quickly defeated all the suspicions that academics usually have of Wikipedia:
Suspicions soon gave way to curiosity and this was also replaced by the enthusiasm inspired by an unprecedented proposal.
Considering that Wikipedia usually occupies the top positions on Internet search engines and that it is often the first, and usually the only resource consulted by most of the population to satisfy their doubts or curiosity, it makes sense to propose that the information and data available in this online encyclopedia be correct and adequate.
We asked Hinojo what he thinks about the suspicions shown by the academic field:
Suspicion is often the result of ignoring a specific subject.
That’s why we develop these types of projects, so we can approach different spheres.
One thing that teachers repeat the most is: “I wasn’t aware either of the level of control enforced by volunteers or the level of quality filter processes that Wikipedia has.
Wikipedians are even more “pernickety” than teachers”.
Towards an open education
GLAM wikiprojects try to involve professionals from cultural institutions so they can coalesce to share their knowledge freely.
In the case of Viquimodernisme, Solé and Hinojo were responsible for bringing that collaborative working culture which characterizes Wikipedia community to the GRACMON professors, world authorities on Catalan Modernism.
Solé says in her article :
Instead of performing traditional course work in the form of stapled sheets of paper that probably ended up in the trash bin, students had to edit Wikipedia articles.
Thus participants were immersed in a world of encyclopedic language, where the syntax –code-wiki– seemed weird, where the community of Wikipedia editors was actively involved and intervened in a work that didn’t belong to the student anymore for it had become free and available to anyone thanks to creative commons licenses.
The survey conducted in January 2013 by the project's coordinators demonstrates the participating students' enthusiasm.
Graph courtesy of ESM, via the Wikimedia Commons.
Articles have been improved, especially in Catalan, but they have also edited articles in Spanish, French and English.
Project managers made an inquiry to evaluate its development by the end of the first semester, on January 2013.
You can check the results here .
After these first months of the project, Hinojo points out the positive fact that “students find it really useful that their work has been 'published' in Wikipedia and is available to everybody”.
GLAM Wikiprojects, getting art online
Viquimodernisme belongs to a type of wikiprojects known as GLAM (Galleries, Libraries, Archives and Museums), an international initiative that was born after the people in charge of the British Museum realized many articles talked about their institution on Wikipedia and decided to hire a wikipedian to correct and widen the existing content.
Since then, this initiative has been exported to other countries and institutions.
Viquimodernisme has raised interest among some academic institutions, and the coordinators hope the project will become a model for others in the future.
They will present their final results at the CoupdeFouet International Art Noveau Congress to be held in Barcelona on June 2013, which coincides with the project's end.
Violeta Camarasa co-authored this article. Cristina Simón collaborated in its translation into English.
Matisse Bustos Hawkes, Witness and the Power of Video · Global Voices
Witness, an international non-profit organization that, for the last 20 years, has been using the power of video and narrative to open the world's eyes to human rights' abuses, participated in the most recent Global Voices Summit in Nairobi, Kenya.
In the panel discussion entitled "The Global Rise of Citizen Media," Witness' communications manager, Matisse Bustos Hawkes, spoke about how the different uses and applications of video are changing the dynamic of human rights defense.
She also presented the issues raised by using video:
Now that we can shoot and share video instantaneously, how can people control the information they're sharing about themselves and the people they film. tells the story of a woman who tells her story, and whose face is obscured in the video to protect her identity.
She shows efforts by the Iranian government to crowdsource the identity of protesters.
Wael Abbas is using the livestream platform Bamboozler, which shares the location of livestreams.
His friends can track where he is; so can the police.
This is not the first time that Witness and Global Voices have worked together.
In fact, in 2007, a video jointly produced by Witness and Global Voices was the winner of the One World Media award.
In 2012, GV republished articles by Witness and reported on a number of its activities, including this article by Juliana Rincón about the video series designed to teach activists how to film protests:
After her presentation, I spoke briefly with Matisse about Witness and other aspects of video:
Related posts:
Chris Moya, SpainRevolt and Cyberactivism
Afef Abrougui, Blogging From Tunisia
Talking With Rebecca MacKinnon About 'Consent Of The Networked' The second video in this post was subtitled by dancampbell and ligia.magalhaes.
Original post published on Juan Arellano's blog
After Ang Lee's Oscar Win, China Imagines Cinema Beyond Censors · Global Voices
Looking to Taiwanese-born director Ang Lee's Oscar win for Best Director with pride and envy, mainland Chinese web users frustrated with the communist regime's tight grip on the film industry are wondering about their own country's cinematic potential.
A search of Lee's name yields more than 70,886 results and 4,165,630 discussions, making it the second most searched term on popular Chinese microblogging site Sina Weibo as of the afternoon of February 25, 2013.
This is the second Academy Award win for Lee, who thanked Taiwan during his acceptance speech for its cooperation in the making of "Life of Pi".
In 2005, when he won the award for Best Director for his movie Brokeback Mountain, the Chinese media censored his acceptance speech, omitting any references to his native Taiwan or homosexuality.
Lee concluded his acceptance speech this time around with a "thank you" in Mandarin, causing some Chinese viewers to swell with pride.
But others warned not be get so excited about the cultural nod, emphasizing that Lee's win had nothing to do with China.
Some Weibo users, such as "Qianzhe Yang Fang Lang" , put emphasis on the word "hua ren", a term used to describe ethnic Chinese people living abroad, as opposed to “zhong guo ren”, meaning Chinese citizens:
Ang Lee picked up his second Best Director award at this year's Oscars.
A screen shot of the ceremony from youku.
Ang Lee is a good "hua ren" director, did you hear the word “China” in it?
Don't put feathers in your own cap.
Another user wrote ：
He expressed his gratitude to Taiwan, not China!
Writer "Tianyou" wondered why some were drawing a connection between mainland China and Lee：
Ang Lee's win for Best Director made some people so excited, they said it's China's pride.
However, I feel a bit strange, as it's his own business.
Even when it comes to pride, it's due to education in Taiwan and the US.
How does it have anything to do with us?
However, Jiuzhouzhi magazine editor "Jiangnan Ricardo" disagreed that Lee's win meant nothing for China:
Although some friends think Ang Lee's win is his own business, I think his thinking features Chinese culture, which can be seen in his movies such as "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" and "Life of Pi".
He used his method to present Chinese culture to the world, being Chinese I'm happy for him.
Many netizens attributed Lee's success to the free entertainment industries in Taiwan and the US.
"Keguan Nvjia Yunchuang" commented ： If he were to live in mainland, he wouldn't have made it! User "Shouwangzhe" echoed ：
Why is he so successful?
The answer is simple: because he grew up in Taiwan.
Famous commentator "Zhu Qi“ wrote :
Taiwanese are ahead of us in terms of culture and arts.
Congratulations to Taiwan.
Although the they lost to the Communist Party during the Chinese Civil War, their culture and system still prevail!
Ang Lee's win also served as a reminder of China's strict film censorship.
User "Zantan Wuwei" pointed out that China is stifling creativity ：
No one from the mainland has won any Oscars.
Because there's no freedom in creativity and film production, only propaganda, which has lead to a decline of culture.
In a society where political praise sings louder than Oscars, no one is able to create great art.
The system impedes good directors, user “Hexie De Tianxia” wrote：
There is no lack of good directors in China, but the system decides what movies you make!
Just a few days' before Ang Lee's win, China's State Administration of Radio Film and Television (SARFT) announced that "from now on all televised documentaries in China need to be submitted to SARFT for review first."
Wang Ran, CEO of China eCapital Corporation, a leading private investment bank in China commented to his 2.65 million fans on Weibo： Most people are just watching Hollywood for entertainment, but they are helping Hollywood to ensure its global empire status by doing this.
Barcelona's Best Writers, Translators Celebrate Literary Journal Asymptote's Anniversary · Global Voices
English translator Peter Bush.
Photo by Alba Calle.
Asymptote, an international digital literature and translation magazine, celebrated its second anniversary with a series of events held around the globe with participation from some of the world's best contemporary writers and translators.
Among the cities chosen was Barcelona , where a recital from some translators and authors from the city took place in Spanish, Catalan, and English on 25 January to present the first edition of the magazine in 2013.
Audience at the Inusual Project room.
Photo by Alba Calle.
The project came about thanks to a group of entrepreneurs from different parts of the world who shared a love for literature and the art of translation.
With this in mind, Asymptote provides readers with excerpts from works in their original language and the corresponding translation.
Some even include audio recordings of the translator so that readers can have access to the phonetics of the language.
And that's not all. Apart from literary works, the magazine also has a section dedicated to visual art.
Asymptote was named 2012 Magazine of The Year by 3:am magazine alongside publications including The Times Literary Supplement and London Review of Books. The project's success is owed largely to a long list of volunteer collaborators including authors, translators, photographers, and illustrators.
Yew Leong Lee, the magazine's editor-in-chief, spoke with Global Voices about the project and the event in Barcelona.
After two years, how does it feel to be part of such a successful project?
Celebrating our second anniversary in cities like New York, Berlin, Taipei, and Barcelona has been extremely satisfying, particularly because we met up with readers from all over the place for the first time and we saw the difference between their cultural environments, even though we are a completely digital magazine.
This proves that there is a huge demand for literature to be treated as a global phenomenon and not within the individual framework of a single language.
Asymptote aims to be the focal point for literary communities, which are always minorities.
I'd like to thank my team and also the readers, especially those who helped us to broadcast our initiative and have collected for us in our current Indiegogo fundraising campaign.
Writer Adrià Targa with Rafael Mammos and Najat El Hachmi.
Photo by Joaquim Moreno Càceres.
Since we've collaborated with so many great Spanish writers (not only from Spain, but also from Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, etc.) over these two years, we wanted to hold an event to reinforce our link with Spain.
Barcelona seemed like an obvious choice because many translations are done there, not only for tourists but also between Catalan and Spanish.
We'd like to introduce even more Catalan and Spanish writers to our English readers in 2013.
How was the event in Barcelona received?
It was a great success. There were definitely more than 100 people attending.
The programme included both established translators and writers and young promising faces in the world of translation and literature.
Some of the writers even tried their hand at one or two translations and shared them with the audience.
There was also live music from a swing band who added a relaxed vibe to the event.
Many of the guests stayed behind to talk to the authors and thank us for the initiative, as they'd never been to an event like it.
Following the huge success of all the events, do you have plans to do it again in the near future?
It's a possibility, because the public not only gave us a warm welcome in Barcelona but in all the cities where we organised events.
It all depends if we have enough support, because we'd also like to go to other areas and bring world literature to local communities and vice versa.
The next places on our list are London, Paris, and Tokyo.
However, if we get another chance to organise a similar event in Barcelona, we'd be delighted!
Photos of the worldwide event are available on the magazine's Facebook page.
You can also keep up to date with the latest Asymptote news on Twitter and Tumblr.
Attention!
Baby on Board: An Interview With a Travelling Blogger Family · Global Voices
An interview with The Family Without Borders: Anna and Thomas Alboth, parents, travellers and bloggers who've been around the Black Sea and around Central America with their two small daughters.
In 2010, a young couple from Berlin - Anna, a Polish journalist, and Thomas, a German photographer - decided to live on their globetrotting dream - and they decided to do it with their 6-month-old daugther Hanna on board.
With a fully-packed Renault Espace they made a half-a-year-long road trip around the Black Sea, through the Caucasus to the Caspian Sea.
The idea worked out so well that in 2012, already with their second daughter Mila, they travelled in Central America from Mexico down to Guatemala, Belize and Honduras.
From their first trip on they decided to share their unusual experiences through their blog, The Family Without Borders .
The interest turned out to be so significant that in 2011 the blog was named the Best Travel Blog by the Polish edition of the National Geographic.
Global Voices (GV): Let’s imagine 25 years forward.
Your daughters have their own children and want to go travelling with their babies.
What is your reaction?
Mexico (Yukatan), Holbox Island.
Photo © Thomas Alboth, used with permission.
Anna (A): I hope it will be this way.
Recently, we've had some discussions about parents, kids and grandkids and how it all can change.
We were a bit afraid that maybe they will choose a totally other way of life than we did and that it would be hard to accept it if they would start saying things like, "I want to go to a hotel.”
But on the other hand, the more they grow up the more I feel that I’m scared that something can happen to them, all these mother-ish things.
Thomas (T): I would have wanted it.
But I’m also not so sure if they will like this lifestyle, I have friends who grew up in a community flat and then they turned into the opposite.
I’m also pretty happy to be completely different from my parents.
So maybe one day they will stay in a hotel, will have nice rolling suitcases and that’s ok.
GV: You received the National Geographic title for the Best Travel Blog in 2011.
Why do you think your blog became so successful?
A: I think it was two things.
First, we didn’t plan for it to be big, so we were just doing what we liked, and I think these things are always going bigger when you just do what you love.
We have known all these travel bloggers who had business plans, but for us it was basically writing for the grandparents, so that they could see Hanna safe and smiling.
That was the beginning.
After a while we started to check the statistics and we saw that people from 20, 40, 50 countries were visiting the blog, and we were like, “wow”.
There is this generation of young Europeans who are studying abroad, travelling, making international couples and they think that if they have kids it will be all over.
I think when they see what we did, they see hope that it all really doesn’t have to be over.
The whole family in their flat in Berlin.
Photo by Kasia Odrozek
GV: Did you have a clear work division: who is writing, who takes pictures and so on?
A: Yes, we had clear divided tasks.
It happened that I made some pictures but not often, normally the camera was in his hands all the time.
I was writing the posts, Thomas wrote maybe two posts in these three years.
For the blog he does all the technical things and I do all the human communication work.
And on the road Thomas usually drives and I usually tell him where we are going .
The whole thing works when we are doing it together.
A couple of weeks ago, he was in Burma and I was in Palestine and we didn’t post anything on the blog, and it felt strange.
GV: Would your experience be different without the blog?
A: For me having the blog was very motivating to get more knowledge about everything.
On the second trip, I was writing in a much more journalistic way, so I was noting many more things, asking for more context while talking to people, taking leaflets in museums and so on.
I don’t know if I would do all of this without knowing that I will publish it.
T: I was a bit jealous, because writing means reprocessing, while editing pictures is not the same experience, you don’t need more knowledge, you don’t have to understand the situation to make a picture.
At Lake Sevan in Armenia.
GV: What is your favorite memory when you look back at your travels?
T: More than a memory it is a feeling of being self-paced, that you decide about your own life.
When you stay in one place you get into this daily rhythm, you get up, grab a coffee in the morning, you take a tram or metro and you go to your office, and 80 percent of your day is predictable.
That’s what I liked about the trip, for a half of the year you decide what you want to do.
GV: Was there a moment when you thought, “This was a mistake”?
A: There was one such moment when I was scared and I thought that all these people saying that we were irresponsible parents were right.
It was the night at a hotel in Guatemala where we saw three big men with guns passing by the corridor, talking angrily on the phone.
We had to do something to feel better, so we asked them if they were dangerous.
We didn’t speak too much Spanish but, luckily, we knew the word peligroso, dangerous.
They answered “yes, but not for you and not here.”
Then we learned that in Guatemala everybody has guns because they hadn’t been disarmed after the civil war.
GV: You say that your travels were about people and their stories.
What was the craziest thing you heard or experienced?
T: If you come from a different world, even just the way people live their everyday lives seems interesting and sometimes strange.
The family has to say goodybe to their hosts in Guatemala, Chilasco waterfall.
Photo © Anna Alboth, used with permission.
A: During the second trip, in Guatemala, we were hosted by a Mayan family in their small house with plastic chairs and a TV.
After we talked to them, they were surprised, but not by the fact that we were travelling for so long - but that we could live without a TV for so long.
Then in the evening, when I started to cut potatoes for a soup, all these small girls immediately started to help me because that’s what they do, they do everything together.
When we were leaving, they were asking when we would come back and it was heartbreaking, we wanted to say that we would call but they didn’t have a phone, they wanted to write a letter but they didn’t know how to write.
GV: Any plans for the future?
A:We have to go on a trip again, of course.
But before we do it, I need to finish my book on Central America, then we will go travelling again.
On March 26, 2013, The Family Without Borders will share their pictures and stories at a slideshow presentation at the Globetrotter shop in Berlin.
For more details, please visit their blog or Facebook.
Coca Cola Machine 'Out of Order' in Australia · Global Voices
A nationwide campaign against Coca Cola has followed their successful legal challenge on March 4, 2013 to container deposit legislation in Australia's Northern Territory.
Robin Tennant-Wood summed up on The Conversation blog:
After the introduction of the Northern Territory’s CDL scheme last year, multinational beverage giant, Coca-Cola Amatil (CCA), announced that it would mount a legal challenge against the scheme. … In the wake of the court decision, industrial sabotage activist group, Out Of Order, responded by putting “Out of Order” signs on CCA vending machines in all capital cities.
Out of Order on the Gold Coast - Image: Out of Order facebook page
The Out of Order Facebook and Twitter accounts give their location as Hobart Tasmania, at the opposite end of the country.
Its Facebook page explains that they have two other campaigns, namely ones against Banks ANZ and HSBC for their investment in coal and coal seam gas.
A petition at Sum of Us has over 110,000 signatures:
Stop fighting container deposit programs and drop your lawsuit against Australia's Northern Territory.
That’s about the same number of adults in the NT.
Out of Order is prepared to flaunt their arguably illegal activity, comparing themselves with the online activists Anonymous:
‏@itsoutoforder: But then again, maybe #outoforder are #anonymous , industrial sabotage activists... maybe we should ask #popefrancis
It’s not clear how the Pontiff can help.
Like the Holy See, Australia’s Coca-Cola Amatil is getting a new CEO.
Take 3, a clean beach initiative posted a collage of photos on Facebook:
Out of Order Collage - Photo: Take 3 facebook page
There is a similar group called Container Savers who even have their own App for photographing container rubbish:
Container refunds are the most effective mechanism for increasing recycling and reducing litter.
The beverage industry opposes container refunds – let‘s show them where their trash ends up.
When you see drink container litter on the street, in a park, on the beach – or anywhere it shouldn‘t be – take a photo and upload it to the CS map.
For some reason their website has been suspended but their Facebook page and Twitter account are active.
A sample of their work:
Container Litter - Photo: Container Savers facebook page
The Out of Order protest action is probably meant to have more of a symbolic impact than a financial one.
Karen Marshall pointed out in Comments on the Out of Order Challenge photo album:
I checked the share prices yesterday and was alarmed to see they are not going through the floor but have risen since the beginning of this.
Nigel Arnold responded with concern about innocent victims: I think this is a little unfair to the middle man.
Most vending machines are privately owned.
Award winning cartoonist First Dog on the Moon aka Mr Onthemoon tweeted:
‏@firstdogonmoon: IS THAT LEGAL?!!?
RT @itsoutoforder: Just heard about someone switching off twelve #coke machines as part of #OutOfOrder Coke Challenge.
His cartoon appeared on Crikey.com.au on March 5:
‏@GreenpeaceAustP: .@CocaCola smashes popular 10 cent recycling scheme in NT.
Tell the govt this is unacceptable http://bit.ly/stoptrashingaus_tw … #cokefail
Meanwhile the NT government has taken steps to support the deposit scheme until Australian governments can consider laws to enable its implementation.
Clean Up Australia, organisers of Clean Up Australia Day, are very pleased:
‏@Clean_Up : Congrats to the NT government for underwriting the cash for containers scheme for the next 8 weeks and pay everyone their 10cents! #cokefail
Coca Cola Australia has thanked their critics and responded on their Facebook page.
On 6 March they announced:
…a continuation of our commitment to recycling, a $5 million investment with our industry partners, for the Northern Territory to boost recycling rates and reduce litter.
For all the details - http://bit.ly/13FJWr0
Nigel Mitchell’s view seemed representative of the negative reactions amongst the 600+ comments so far:
So, if the COAG meeting decides to support national implementation of a CDS, will Coke support this, or will they continue with their anti-environment and anti-democratic policies?
In fact, there wasn’t a neutral or supportive comment in the first hundred or so.
What do the silent majority think?
We know what they drink - Coke's Aussie facebook page has 936,000+ Likes.
The State of South Australia passed container deposit legislation in 1975 and has had a scheme since 1977.
Spain: The Eternal Fight to Dismantle a Fascist Symbol and Mass Grave · Global Voices
The esplanade at the Valley of the Fallen, Madrid.
Source: Wikimedia Commons
Madrid's Valley of the Fallen, the ostentatious memorial monument built by fascist dictator Francisco Franco, is perhaps the biggest symbol of Francoism and the biggest mass grave in Spain.
Almost 40 years after the death of the dictator, marking the start of democracy in Spain, the exact figure regarding the number of victims from the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939) is still unknown. Many of them have been laid to rest alongside their executioner.
In 2010, the Spanish government had identified 33,833 but there could be many more.
On 19th March 2013, the national Catalan television channel aired the documentary "Avi, et trauré d'aquí!" , which set off comments on the social networking sites about the mausoleum.
According to what was published on the webpage about the programme, it generated more than 2,600 tweets and the hashtag #ettrauré was 'trending' on Twitter throughout the programme and well into the night.
Built between 1940 and 1958 with the help of political prisoners, the Valley of the Fallen is still today a symbol of the victory for the fascist troops over the forces that were defending the Second Spanish Republic, proclaimed in 1931.
The death of Franco in 1975 and the end of his forty year dictatorship gave way to the Spanish democratic state. It was a smooth transition from dictatorship to democracy which took care to not reopen old wounds between the opposing sides from the Civil War.
Despite the Historical Memory Law, passed in 2007, the relatives of the victims from the losing side in the war and Franco's dictatorship fought via civil society organisations, often passively criticising successive governments, so that the bodies of the buried relatives could be recuperated from the mass graves and so that justice could be done.
The historian Queralt Solé (@qbru), who also appeared in the documentary, explains, in her article on the Centre for International History Studies' blog , published by the Catalan history magazine Sàpiens , the process that the regime used in order to stuff the human remains in Franco’s mausoleum:
The process was carried out with absolute transparency; announcements were published in all the main state newspapers and official bulletins within all the provinces offering the possibility of burial in the Valley of the Fallen.
But the response from the relatives of the pro-Franco victims in the war was similar to what the regime was expecting.
The individual requests from the relatives of the “martyrs” was so far from what was predicted that it was decided to increase the grave exhumations of Franco soldiers who died on the front as well as exhuming and transferring the graves of Republican soldiers without, in this case, informing their relatives.
Within a few hours, Twitter was filled with critical comments driven by the political motive of historical memory under the hashtag #ettrauré.
The Independent's collaborative Twitter account (@LaIndepe) criticised the lack of resoluteness from the successive governments led by the Spanish majority parties; the People's Party (PP) and the Spanish Socialist Workers’ Party (PSOE); in relation to the crimes committed during Franco’s dictatorship.
The similar positioning of both the parties has given way, in recent years, to the ironic and informal use of the acronym PPSOE, which refers to the two parties at the same time.
The Valley of the Fallen is a fascist themed park protected by the PPSOE #ettrauré
Many other Tweeters cast doubt on the democratic spirit of Spain, like the editor and bachelor of Law Quim Torra (@QuimTorra) or the journalist Jordi Finestres (@jordifinestres) :
Until Spain stands in front of a mirror and judges itself, it will never be a democracy #ettrauré
While the grandchildren of those that constructed the #valledeloscaidos are in charge, Spain will never be a democracy #ettrauré
Comparisons with the social and legal treatment in Germany and all that can be considered to justify Nazism were recurrent.
David Martí (@davidmarti) , a university professor; Èric Fornós (@fornoseric) , a law student, and Lluís González (@focfollet) , a philologist and linguist, commented:
#ettraure Can you imagine Hitler being buried in a public mausoleum, 60km outside of Berlin, surrounded by jews and gypsies that were gassed during the regime?
Exactly.
Praising Nazism in Germany: 40 years in prison.
Praising Francoism in Spain: complete freedom #ettraure
Germany did the cleansing that Spain has never done.
Certain parties, entities, associations or websites would be forbidden there #ettrauré
Others relate to the Catalan independence movement.
Moisès Trullàs (@CalDirHo), who expresses his desire for Catalonia to be independent from Spain on his profile, said :
We have to take the bodies of our dead out of the Valley of the Fallen and those of our living out of Spain #TenimPressa #ettrauré
On the same topic, the sociologist Marta Rovira expressed herself in her opinion column for the online newspaper tribuna.cat :
We must also remember that Spain is the only state in the EU that has not carried out a policy to persecute those responsible and to repair itself following the crimes against humanity committed during the 20th Century.
And not only that, but the victims and their relatives continue to suffer from the indifference, denial, and often lack of understanding from the Spanish public institutions.
Still today, the Franco era is a dictatorship that hasn't been publicly condemned (with symbols; monuments; and one of the biggest mausoleums in the world, the Valley of the Fallen; still intact), a criminal system without justice, a source of suffering without repair, and a persistent antidemocratic foundation for the Spanish political system.
Because of this, the pain of the past is the shame of the present.
Breaking All-Male, Offline Trend, Cambodia's First Female Lawmaker Blogs · Global Voices
To commemorate the International Women's Day this year, let us meet Mu Sochua, the first woman ever to be elected to Cambodia's Parliament and one of the very few politicians in Cambodia who actively use social media.
Sochua advocates the prioritization of women issues in policymaking and is a known critic of the government of Prime Minister Hun Sen.
In fact, she is currently facing a government lawsuit in connection to her statement in 2009 that she would sue the Prime Minister for allegedly using derogatory and threatening language against her in a speech he made during a visit to Kampot province in southwest Cambodia.
Kampot is the parliamentary district of Sochua. However, the court rejected her case while a counter case filed by her opponent was allowed.
She would face a possible imprisonment term if the Supreme Court upholds her criminal defamation conviction for criticizing the Prime Minister.
Mu Sochua in a meeting with community women's groups in one of the provinces of Cambodia.
Photo taken from Sochua Mu Facebook page.
Despite her court case, she continues to pursue her political goals and is optimistic with the growing number of netizens and the rise of social media which she believes can bring new ideas and different views in politics.
Through an email interview, Sochua shared her perspectives on politics and social media.
What inspired you to join politics?
After listening to then First Lady Hillary Clinton speak about "women's rights as human rights" and the power that women need in order to make meaningful changes and give power to women-women need to seize power and become political.
That was at the 4th World Conference on Women.
When I returned from Beijing, I was offered a position as Adviser to the First Prime Minister.
I joined a political party then and have been active in party politics ever since.
When did you start blogging?
How do you manage your time?
On Facebook and owning my own blog, just about two years ago.
Twitter a bit later.
I spend an average of two hours a day on social media and do it 95 percent of my time as I think it is important to communicate directly with fans and friends.
I also think it is a responsible way to communicate as I consider politics as a personal matter.
I usually research issues that I talk about.
Sometimes, take my own pictures.
You are the only politician who maintains a blog in Cambodia.
What convinced you to blog?
It comes from my interest in communications, in reading, in writing and in wanting to know more.
And of course, my interest in gaining votes and getting publicity and support for my party platform.
Social media usage is on the rise in Cambodia.
How does social media contribute to your political work?
The audience is young and that is very important and youth have potentials to bring a new vision for politics and development.
I get good feedback and responses from youth and mostly local youth.
It is very rewarding and engaging.
I think it is a democratic process, open and free from fear and intimidation.
But I also do get hate mail and sometimes very aggressive with false accusations but that is what a public figure should expect.
How can social media influence Cambodian politics?
It is growing every day.
I hope to find more female friends and fans.
I am known politician and for fans and friends to communicate with me is a sign that politics is changing.
Social media brings new ideas, different views as it is for development.
More ideas, more views, more differences bring diversion and will force us to be tolerant.
All good for Cambodia.
Where do you see yourself in five years?
Still in politics and hopefully wiser.
Cigarette Vendor Sets Himself on Fire, Self-immolations Continue in Tunisia · Global Voices
Adel Khadri, a 27-year-old cigarette street vendor set himself on fire on Tunis' main street Habib Bourguiba Avenue on March 12, 2013.
According to eye witnesses, Khadri shouted: "This is a young man who sells cigarettes because of unemployment," before flames consumed his body.
Khadri passed away early this morning at Ben Arous' Burns Hospital.
Collective blog Nawaat reports :
Anguished by his living conditions, the young street vendor, who set himself on fire passed away at dawn on Wednesday.
This is the last illustration of the social tensions in Tunisia, which the new government, once in place, should deal with.
"He died today at 5.30am from severe burns", said Imed Touibi director of the Centre of Severe Burns in Ben Arous (a Tunis suburb), where the young 27-year-old man was hospitalized.
Quoting the privately-owned radio Mosaique FM, author of the blog Massir Destin reports on the number of self-immolations in Tunisia:
Did Adel Khadri die for nothing?
The question seems indecent, but it is provoked by the silence of the political class, surrounding the announcement of this self-immolation.
This is inevitably a return to square zero for the Tunisian revolution, when Mohamed Bouaziz, a fruit and vegetable street vendor sprinkled himself with gas and set himself alight, on December 17, 2010.
Prior to and after Bouazizi's , similar cases were registered.
The death of Adel Khadri at dawn, should be a call for the entire Tunisian society.
A country which offers no hope for its youth, is a fading and collapsing country.
It is not a question of asking for miraculous remedies, but rather calling upon the political class, both the majority AND opposition, to work for the common good, the national interest and the people.
The political chicaneries which are tainting old democracies are not an urgency for a country which has been living in freedom for only two years and two months.
Online Course in Spanish on Election Coverage · Global Voices
The Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas is offering a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) in Spanish on "How to Improve Electoral Coverage."
The course will be taught by Colombian journalist María Teresa Ronderos from March 8 to April 19, 2013.
Ronderos says the course is for journalists and also "for bloggers and tweeters, or people who follow their electoral processes through Facebook or simply for citizens who are interested in knowing more about their elected officials and what's the state and situation of democracy in their country."
Iran's President Says "Chavez Will Return with Christ" · Global Voices
President Ahmadinejad, in his message of condolences for Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, published on his official website, referred to President Chavez as a "Martyr of service to the people of Venezuela, who died as a result of a suspicious death."
Ahmadinejad added, "I have no doubt Chavez will return with Jesus Christ and all the other righteous ones," referring to the Hidden Imam who some in Islam consider to be the future savior of mankind.
Ahmadinejad was criticized for this message both by netizens and by Ahmad Khatami, a leading conservative figure within the regime.
Damavandieh writes :
Iranian youth were killed, an earth quake hit the Azerbaijan province, people who served this country died, but the government did not announce a national day of mourning, even while Iranians were mourning.
Now Chavez died… and all of a sudden the government announces a national day of mourning.
From the moment he died, Iranians sent SMS messages to each other making jokes about him
Ahmadinejad presents Chavez as a Shi'ite Saint.
Mana Neyestani in Roozonline (used with permission)
Azadi quotes Iranian media who say that Ahmadinejad called Venezuela’s vice president one month ago and said he prays to God for Chavez’s health.
The blogger says with irony that hopefully Ahmadinejad is citing the same prayer for Ali Khamenei .
Azarmehr has quoted from one part of Ahmadinejad’s message about the death of Chavez and published several photos of late Venezulean president together with Saddam Hussein, Iraq’s former dictator and an arch foe of Iran and Mohammad Khatami, the former reformist president.
Challenger published Chavez photos dancing with two sexy dancers and asks whether these two will also return with Christ and the Hidden Imam.
Tweatter writes he hopes Chavez does not wait too long to come back.
1376 executions says :
If one day Iran and Italy were to develop strong ties, the Iranian government would say the same thing about former Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, that this womanizer will come back with Christ.
Changing Attitudes on Child Marriage in India · Global Voices
Most child marriages in the world take place in South Asia and rural sub-Saharan Africa.
In rural India, 47 percent (UNFPA report) of girls get married before the age of 18.
The Indian state of Bihar has the highest number of child marriages at 69 percent.
Urmila Chanam shares a story of a child bride in India:
This is the tradition in this part of India.
Children are married off when they should still be playing with toys.
Boys and girls enter matrimony without knowing what marriage means.
Their childhood and any life aspirations they might have had are extinguished by this age-old tradition.
No one challenges it because it has become the norm.
Though Indian law has made child marriage illegal, it is still reported widely from the rural parts of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgar, Bihar, and Andhra Pradesh.
Though some other third world countries practice child marriage, India alone houses one-third of all child brides.
Girls dressed as young bride and groom for an awareness campaign against child marriage.
Agartala, India.
Image by Reporter#24728.
Copyright Demotix (7/3/2012)
There are also religious reasons for early marriages.
The high court of the Indian state of Karnataka has recently ruled in a child marriage case that the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006 (PCMA) has overriding effect over the provisions of the Muslim Personal Law, where the marriage of a girl child is allowed once she attains puberty.
According to the PCMA act marriage below 18 for girls and 21 for boys is prohibited.
Rural girls and boys who are poor, have little or no education and bonded by traditional social norms and values are most likely to get married early defying the legislations.
But that is always not the case.
Maharashtra has one of the highest numbers of child marriages.
Video Volunteers at Youth Ki Awaaz reminds:
Fifty-two per cent of married women in Maharashtra admit to consummating their marriages before the age of 18, a government’s District Level Household and Facility Survey (DLHS-3) report reveals.
This is happening in a so- called ‘progressive’ state of Maharashtra, the family controls a girls life and reproductive decisions.
The above video was screened in many villages on wide screen projectors.
Child marriages in India are a part of the larger social construct which is not commonly flagged as a problem.
Neha, a blogger from New Delhi, writes:
Although the UN has been working hand in hand with the government of India to raise awareness, strengthen law enforcement and invest in the education of girls, many of our leaders still consider child marriage as a solution to protect girls from sexual atrocities like rape.
According to UNFPA if current levels of child marriages worldwide continue, every single day 39,000 girls will marry too young.
Iran's New Stealth Fighter Soars Across Fake Sky · Global Voices
This post is part of our International Relations & Security coverage.
News photo of Iran's Qaher-313 flying across a photoshopped sky.
Iranian bloggers revealed earlier this month that an official photo showing Iran’s recently unveiled stealth fighter, the Qaher-313, in flight is in fact a fake photoshopped image.
Despite claims by the Iranian government that the aircraft is patrolling the skies, sharp-eyed bloggers noticed that the image was taken from the unveiling ceremony in Tehran and superimposed onto a different background.
While many Iranians (possibly including the military) have taken to Facebook to excitedly promote the Qaher-313, many bloggers view the image as an opportunity to mock the Tehran regime.
Adding substance to their mockery are allegations that the photograph of a monkey that Iran supposedly sent into space is also a fake.
After the monkey scandal broke, Freedomseeker wrote that Iranian news outlets were starting to report about the Defense Ministry’s successful production of a very modern fighter plane.
The blogger found it ‘weird’ that the aircraft was being unveiled at an indoor sports stadium as airplanes are usually shown in flight.
Freedomseeker also noted that the dimensions were smaller than other comparable planes, prompting the following response:
We cannot trust the Islamic Republic’s claims until we see this fighter in flight, because the government has a very bad reputation for making fake photoshopped photos and presenting models instead of the real thing.
Some bloggers reminded that there are far more important concerns for the country rather than building a new fighter aircraft.
Xcalibur published a photo of the aircraft and estimated the costs, saying:
People want bread, not fighters.
If only we could feed hungry people with missiles and bullets!
666Sabz published several photos and compared the Qaher-313 with foreign models, noting that Qaher’s cockpit is very small.
Tweatter wrote that after the glorious return of the space monkey, the Islamic Republic is now looking for a stupid monkey to become the pilot of Qaher-313.
Accordingly, the Qaher-313 has provided bloggers and skeptics alike with further opportunities to mock the Iranian government’s self-declared military might.
Indeed, the following video demonstrates that the mockery goes beyond Tehran’s alleged fifth-generation fighter.
This post and its translations to Spanish, Arabic and French were commissioned by the International Security Network (ISN) as part of a partnership to seek out citizen voices on international relations and security issues worldwide.
This post was first published on the ISN blog, see similar stories here.
China, Pollution and Cancer Villages · Global Voices
China's top Internet entrepreneur Ma Yun has warned that no amount of money can protect the rich from China's cancer-causing pollution.
His comments resonated with web users, many of whom are already alarmed by the country's toxic combination of air and water contamination and food safety issues.
During the 13th annual meeting of the Yabuli China Entrepreneurs Forum, the founder and CEO of leading Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba, bypassed business opportunities to address China's pollution-linked health problems in his speech.
He predicted that cancer will trouble every Chinese family in 10 years.
He also stressed that citizens should be more environmentally aware and should not rely on the government only:
On Sina Weibo, Global Times shared a map of China’s “cancer villages”.
Thirty years ago, how many people knew somebody with cancer?
Cancer was a rare word.
Now it has become a common disease.
Liver cancer may have something to do with water; lung cancer has something to do with our air; gastric cancer has something to do with our food.
The privileged class has clean water, but they can’t order clean air.
I worry that we work so hard, and finally all we earn goes toward medical expenses.
No matter how much money you make, if you can’t enjoy the sunshine, it is really just a tragedy.
His speech, shared on popular Chinese microblogging site Sina Weibo by Caijing News the day after, made waves among netizens, triggering over 99,136 reposts and 16,676 comments.
One Weibo user “绿色传承生命 commented :
We don’t need 10 years; at the moment, there are many “cancer villages”.
The smog in Beijing is making cancer rates increase by 67 percent.
Pollution is a far greater disaster than we predicted.
Another user “高歌一曲abc” wrote :
That’s why we choose to go visit our daughter every year.
We hope every year we get the chance to eat quality food for a change, and enjoy some fresh air and sunshine, so that we can be a bit healthier and live longer.
Ma’s comment about China's cancer problem is no exaggeration.
On Sina Weibo, even communist party mouthpiece Global Times shared a horrific map of China’s “cancer villages” on the same day as Ma Yun's speech:
According to the Beijing Times, the Ministry of Environmental Protection recently published the “12th Five-Year Plan for Prevention and Control of Environmental Risks from Chemicals”, which clearly stated that due to chemical poisoning, “cancer villages” and other serious health problems have begun to emerge in some areas.
According to journalist Deng Fei, these “cancer villages” are spreading from central Eastern China to central Western China.
On February 23, Youth Times also shared a similar map, detailing the high frequency of different cancers in different areas of China.
According to the map, eastern Chinese cities like Shanghai have a high frequency of gastric cancer, while the southeast has a high frequency of liver cancer.
Moreover, six people are diagnosed with cancer and five people die from cancer every five minutes in China.
According to the news, the high frequency of cancer has a lot to do with an unhealthy lifestyle, with the environment being one of the biggest threats to health.
Pakistan's Darkest Night On Social Media · Global Voices
Courtesy @SamirRajani
A massive power breakdown rocked Pakistan at 11:45 pm on Sunday, 24 February 2013, plunging 70 percent of the country into darkness for 14 hours.
Government-enforced electricity outages or 'loadshedding' have been in place since 2008 to manage Pakistan's electricity shortage.
So when the lights first went out, many responded by powering up their generators or lighting candles, thinking it was a scheduled outage.
Until tweet after tweet came in reporting that practically the whole country had been affected.
The news was verified almost instantly by journalists like Faizan Lakhani (@faizanlakhani) on Twitter:
The government does not want to upset voters so there are no planned outages to manage the electricity shortage ... was bound to happen.
You can’t keep people happy with an uninterrupted power supply when surrounded by so many problems.
One of the first people to suggest that this power failure was on a national level was Samra Muslim (@samramuslim) with this tweet:
@samramuslim: #Karachi: which parts have power.
Please confirm. @kesc_ltd
@YusraSAskari: #BlackOut #Pakistan RT @shahrukh1985: @yusrasaskari Just called relatives in Hyderabad & Dadu.
Same scene since 23h30. February 24, 2013
Image from inside Karachi airport via @sanasaleem
Soon social media in Pakistan was buzzing with queries to the online Twitter account of the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation @kesc_ltd.
When most of Pakistan aside from the high-security red zone and military bases remained shrouded in darkness, people once again turned to humor to make life easier during the blackout.
As hilarity ensued, even our neighbors joined in on the puns:
@godfatheriv (Godfather IV): #OverHeard Pakistan's population to increase by 7% in the last few hours.#BlackoutInPakistan LOL @zedgardezi (Zed Gardezi):'Does Mobilink work off Tarbela and Mangla dams?!?!'
With umpteen promises to turn the power back on within hours and people ranting and raving about all kinds of conspiracy theories from an army coup to an alien invasion, day light finally brought with it the sanity of restoration to the national grid. As city after city came back to power, Pakistanis realized that even the darkest night in our history could be seen through with unity to laugh in the face of helplessness.
Maldives Rape Victim's Flogging Sentence Touches Off Anti-Tourism Campaign · Global Voices
Global outrage is growing against a Maldives court's verdict announced on February 26, 2013 to flog a 15-year-old girl who was originally a victim of rape and sexual abuse.
She now faces 100 lashes in public which will be administered when she turns 18.
More than one million people have signed a petition created by the campaign website Avaaz.org, urging Maldivian authorities to protect the girl and end the practice of flogging of women and children for sex outside marriage.
The petition also threatens to hit at the country's tourism industry until President Mohamed Waheed acts.
The girl has been a victim of sexual abuse dating back to 2009 and consecutive governments have failed to protect her, according to a report by Minivan News.
The court sentenced her to 100 lashes and 8 months of house arrest for confessing to a separate case - not related to the rape - of consensual sex with a man.
She was first taken for questioning in 2012 when a dead baby was found buried inside her family compound.
Her stepfather has been charged with murdering her baby and child sexual abuse while her mother has been charged with concealing the sexual abuse.
Capital of Maldives, Male.
Image by Ahmed Shuau.
Copyright Demotix (30/10/2009)
The police are under fire for a rushed investigation without providing adequate counselling for the girl and obtaining a confession out of her for prosecution.
The Prosecutor General's Office claimed that a confession of fornication left no choice for them but to press ahead with prosecution under Maldives' laws.
In January 2013, when charges were pressed against the girl, the government said it will review and correct laws that victimize minors and women who suffered sexual abuse.
Amnesty International immediately condemned the charges.
Abbas Faiz, Amnesty International’s Maldives Researcher, argued that suspected victims of rape and sexual abuse required counselling and support rather than facing prosecution.
When the Juvenile Court sentenced the girl in February, the news was covered by mainstream media outlets including BBC and CNN.
Faced with prospect of international condemnation, the government pledged to review the case and appeal it in a superior court.
The conservative religious Adhaalath Party supported the court's verdict.
The Prosecutor General's decision to use the confession of the girl as evidence against her in the prosecution has been heavily criticized.
#OperationEndherima
Following the sentence, Maldivian activists started using the hashtag #OperationEndherima on social media to mount a campaign to protect the girl and voice out against the injustices she was facing.
Twitter user AdduHaanee (@AdduHaanee) wrote:
@AdduHaanee: little girls shud be smiling, laughing & making lego brick houses.
Not getting punished for crimes they did not commit #OperationEndherima
Azaf Riza (@azaf_riza) lamented the situation:
@azaf_riza: We live in a patriarchal society run by morons..victim is further victimised and she will forever be labelled #OperationEndherima
Avaaz Petition
The issue has gained worldwide attention after the petition started on Avaaz on March 20, 2013 received one million signatures within three days.
Meanwhile, Maldivians are reacting online to Avaaz's petition and are continuing the local campaign #OperationEndherima as well.
On Twitter, Hamid Shafeeu (@shafeeu) wrote:
@shafeeu (Hamid Shafeeu): In three days One million people expressed their outrage at a raped child being flogged.
One million people. #Shame #OperationEndherima
Nuvana (@Nuvana) called the girl's punishment "insane":
@Nuvana: Any sane Maldivian would have to agree that punishing a rape victim in lieu of protection is inhumane and insane #OperationEndherima
xiena saeed (@dorinbakedbeans) tweets:
@dorinbakedbeans: hey @DrWaheedH the avaaz petition just reached 1 million mark. thats more than the 2012 tourists #operationendherima pic.twitter.com/hEUhTq7i4K
Avaaz is planning to run ads on travel magazines to pressure the government of Maldives to abolish flogging as a form of punishment.
In a country that aimed for one million tourists in 2012 and narrowly missed that mark, the implications of a global campaign that could damage the tourism industry are huge.
The Avaaz petition reads:
Tourism is the big earner for the Maldives elite, including government ministers.
Let's build a million-strong petition to President Waheed this week, then threaten the islands' reputation through hard-hitting ads in travel magazines and online until he steps in to save her and abolish this outrageous law.
Maleeh Jamal, the deputy minister of tourism, has said such a negative campaign will damage not only the tourism industry of Maldives but the country as a whole.
Jamal's concerns are echoed by some Twitter users who feel opposition activists are using this issue to attack the government.
asoa (@asoa) wrote:
@asoa: @Nuvana 14 y/o Rihana, Sh.
Bilehfahi was flogged during @MohamedNasheed office and @Velezinee at Judicial Service. #FuckOperationEndherimaa
#OperationEndherima has also been criticized for failing to highlight the issue of "Hoara" Ibrahim Rasheed, a senior official of Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP), who is accused of having consensual sex with an underage girl and then later claiming to have married her.
asoa (@asoa) was critical on this point: @asoa: @kudanai #OperationEndherima silent on Hoara Ibbe issue cos he is MDP. #FuckOperationEndherimaa
Farah Faizal (@FarahDidi) wrote about the country's priorities: @FarahDidi: #Maldives Tourism Ministry worried about negative effect of @Avaaz petition.
But not worried about #flogging minors? http://sun.mv/english/10890
Some Maldivians feel that targeting the tourism industry is the only option left to force the authorities to review the gross injustices associated with the Maldives' criminal justice system.
However, there are others who feel that a negative tourism campaign will impact not only the politicians as Avaaz believes but the ordinary people of the Maldives who depend on the tourism industry for their livelihood.
An estimated 30,000 Maldivians are employed by the tourism industry while thousands of others benefit indirectly from tourism through support services such as the supply of fish and vegetables, transport services and sales of souvenirs.
anonymous (@AnonQC), believed to be a Twitter handle of supporters based in Quebec of the hacker collective Anonymous, wrote that the campaign should specifically target certain tourism spots:
@AnonQC: @Avaaz A better idea would be to only boycott tycoon pro-#mvcoup resorts and promote ethical ones run by honest folks. #Maldives
The account added:
@AnonQC: @Avaaz, general boycott campaign against #Maldives tourism is a dumbfuck idea.
Will hurt local folks who are already struggling w/ #mvcoup.
Some Maldivians are against the Avaaz campaign because they believe flogging is a punishment prescribed by Islamic Sharia.
Whistle Blower (@Whistleblovir) defended Sharia law:
@Whistleblovir: @avaaz @FarahDidi Don't spread bogus stories 4 yr political gain.
Maldives implement law on those who actually commit adultery as per sharia
Ibrahim Mustafa (@imustho) wrote:
@imustho: Tomorrow if 1 million people make a petition on Avaaz do we have to change our constitution also to allow other religions in Maldives.
Powerful Union Leader "La Maestra" Arrested in Mexico · Global Voices
Elba Esther Gordillo Morales, leader of the National Education Workers' Union (SNTE) and a controversial figure on the Mexican political scene, was arrested on Tuesday, February 26, 2013, on charges of money laundering.
For more than twenty years, Gordillo, or La Maestra , has led the SNTE, perhaps the largest labor union in Latin America.
La Maestra also founded the minority political party Nueva Alianza, which during last year's electoral process nominated Gabriel Quadri de la Torre as a presidential candidate.
Gordillo has been charged with the federal offense of "transactions involving illegally obtained resources" - colloquially known as "money laundering" - which carries a sentence of five to fifteen years in prison, plus a fine.
Her arrest was ordered by the court and carried out in the State of Mexico when Gordillo arrived at the airport in a private plane coming from the United States.
This offense is taken seriously under Mexican penal law, and consequently the defendant will not be released on bail for the duration of the trial.
It is possible that the commission will charge Gordillo with other crimes, including tax fraud, or that it might investigate and try her as a member of a criminal organization, which would mean a harsher sentence. After she was taken into custody, Gordillo was sent to the Santa Martha Acatitla Social Rehabilitation Center in Mexico City.
Elba Esther Gordillo, image from Wikimedia Commons under Creative Commons license (CC-BY-NC-ND) In 24 years Ms. Gordillo flourished, accumulating money and power.
Dr. Miguel Carbonell (@MiguelCarbonell) , researcher and opinion leader on legal issues in the country, wrote: @MiguelCarbonell: Because the trial is for organized crime the deadlines are doubled.
No way. #Gordillo The news of the arrest of someone like Gordillo has an important impact in a society like Mexico, which for decades has been seriously abused by the political class and the powers that be, like the SNTE and other unions.
Reactions will surely continue to emerge over the next days, but the trial of La Maestra is just beginning.
In Burning Rage for Water, Iran Farmers Take On Security Forces · Global Voices
An anonymous video on YouTube shows angry farmers from eastern part of Isfahan in Iran on Wednesday, February 27, 2013 among burning busses in ongoing protests against water shortages.
There are credible reports of clashes with security forces, but detailed information is limited and official media is silent.
Another video shows that only days earlier, farmers busted open a water pipe carrying water from Zayanderood to Yazd as part of their protest for access to water which is vital to the survival of their crops.
Iranglobal reports that the farmers had been protesting for at least one month about their lack of resources, but received no official response to their demands.
Angry farmers burn busses in Isfahan.
Screenshot from video.
There are some photos and video from the farmers protest on Zayanderood on Facebook.
Burned busses
Five dead?
Sasemadehy says unconfirmed reports speak of five deaths and several injured in clashes with security forces.
The government has allegedly cut off communications from Khurasgaran in Isfahan and has sent more security forces to repress farmers.
Breaking the water pipe
Protests appear to have become more forceful after February 22 when the water pipe was broken.
Weary of Austerity, Portugal Sings a Song of Revolution · Global Voices
This post is part of our Europe in Crisis special coverage.
Thousands of Portuguese people, unhappy with the austerity measures imposed by the government, have promised to again fill the streets of the country on March 2, 2013. The call for protest is gaining momentum on social networking sites, echoing what happened with the massive protests on September 15, 2012 and March 12, 2011 that helped bring down the last government.
A number of protests are organized on Facebook , where messages of discontent are multiplying.
The blog Que Se Lixe a Troika (Screw the Troika) is collecting appeals for participation in the protest, such as this one by José João Louro:
Pope’s Resignation Echoes in Africa · Global Voices
The announcement by Pope Benedict XVI of his intention to resign with effect from February 28, 2013 provoked many reactions in Francophone Africa, both in traditional media and on social networks.
The predominant feeling was that of admiration for the Pope combined with the wish that certain African leaders would follow his example.
The Holy Father, Pope Benedict XVI.
Photo Catholic Church (England and Wales) on Flickr, licence CC by-nc-sa/2.0
Varied opinions, with underlying admiration
In a well-reported article from Togocouleurs blog entitled ‘Must the Pope Die Pope?’, Charles Lebon wrote that :
Russia's Feds Now Using Bloggers to Investigate Bloggers · Global Voices
Last week, blogger and corruption fighter Alexey Navalny was on top of the world, after he published information that led to the eventual resignation of a Duma deputy.
The Russian Internet, however, is a fickle mistress.
Today, Navalny is himself the victim of bloggers.
On February 27, 2013, Investigative Committee spokesperson Vladimir Markin tweeted :
An investigation determined that Alexey Navalny has unlawfully received his attorney's credentials.
Details to follow on sledcom.ru
This was an odd statement to come from the Russian agency sometimes compared to the FBI.
Although Navalny is indeed a lawyer, and is being investigated by the Committee on several matters (investigations many say are politically motivated), his credentials as an attorney are irrelevant to those cases and are outside the scope of the Committee's jurisdiction.
Alexey Navalny, photo by Valya Egorshin, CC 2.0.
Nevertheless, the Committee soon published more information in a press release , alleging that Navalny never completed the two years of relevant work experience that is required for receiving the credentials (in addition to law school).
Navalny allegedly submitted documents to the Kirov Bar Association claiming to have worked part-time as the Deputy Director General for Legal Affairs at a firm where he was also the Director General.
The press release further claims that the firm did not exist at the time.
Of course, such allegations are a direct attack on Navalny's credibility as an anti-corruption activist.
However, putting aside their validity and pertinence, where did the Investigative Committee come up with these accusations?
Incensed blogger Maksim Kononenko had his own theory, first tweeting at the spokesman:
@VladimirMarkin Vladimir, it would be nice if you learned how do do your job.
The press support of your office is abhorrent.
You're incompetent.
(After Markin's retweet of this statement, Kononenko reacted with "I'm f*cked".)
Kononenko later explained why he was so upset on his blog Idiot.fm:
I have a feeling that the heads of the Investigative Committee don't know about the existence of investigators.
They report successes compiled from newspaper and blog publications.
Thanks, Captain !
Where did you learn this?
Did you read the law?
Or a post on Idiot?
The complaint is understandable — Kononenko has single-handedly tried to force the issue of Navalny's legal experience for more than a year with little traction.
The Committee's press release contains no new information to one of his readers.
The document Navalny submitted to the Kirov Bar is widely available on the Internet. As is the fact that his firm OOO "Allekt" was essentially a one man show.
Furthermore, some of the language of the press release follows almost word-for-word a LiveJournal post recently written by NASHI-member and Navalny-hate-blogger Konstantin Goloskokov, linked by Kononenko.
Compare Goloskokov :
at the same time he was also the director of the mentioned OOO.
That is, he was his own deputy.
and the press release :
At the same time we should note that A. Navalny was also the general director of this company.
That is, he appointed himself the boss and the deputy.
Although there are definitely questionable aspects about the way Navalny got his credentials (while he received his law degree in Moscow, he was accredited in the provincial Kirov, where he worked closely with regional governor Nikita Belyh), Kononenko claims that his own motivation is an innocent quest for truth.
According to him, he is just trying to get to bottom of case, and Navalny is being evasive in his answers .
Unlike Goloskokov, Kononenko doesn't particularly mind if Navalny got his experience by working for himself (likely not illegal) — he just wants an unequivocal answer :
I don't really care if Navalny loses his accreditation or not.
I just want for Navalny to answer one simple question.
In fact, Kononenko even went as far as to defend Navalny, debunking Investigative Committee accusations that Navalny claimed experience when the firm didn't yet exist.
Navalny's own response to the Investigative Committee accusations was outraged in tone, but low on details :
You've got all the documents you could - so complain to the bar association.
So far such complaints have been unsuccessful, because they are filled with utter poppycock, which is immediately evident to the critical eye.
While Navalny did not specify which part of the allegations is poppycock, he did get some support from a fellow lawyer, Mark Feygin, who defended Navalny in a comment on Snob.ru:
The question of loss of accreditation will be decided by the Moscow bar.
I am sure that the bar will not give Aleksey Navalny up on such spurious accusations.
Meanwhile, other bloggers have also began to question Navalny's credentials.
Journalist Oleg Lurie, for instance, hit the law books in order to find out what happened.
He claims that even Navalny's version of events (that he worked self-employed to gain legal experience) still would not fulfill the credential requirements, because the firm never had a Legal Department.
Though Navalny certainly has 'bigger fish to fry' than his attorney-status, one wonders if he will eventually take the time to explain what happened.
It would be high irony indeed, if Russia's most notorious anti-corruption blogger decided to ignore the muckraking of his netizen cohort.
Russia's New Media: Too Clique to Fail? · Global Voices
On February 8, 2013, the "socio-political" online publication OpenSpace.ru surprised its users with a succinct banner: "Dear readers, as they say."
For some of these readers it was the first, and only, news that the openly anti-Kremlin website was shutting down.
Some were struck by the suddenness of the move and lack of explanation, suspecting foul play.
Others were rightly confused — after all, didn't OpenSpace already shut down once?
Whatever the initial reaction, the event precipitated some soul-searching on the part of Russian online media.
OpenSpace banner that appeared to announce the publication was closing.
So far the website itself is still operational, just not updated.
February 24, 2013.
After all, OpenSpace isn't unique — it's one of several projects that blur the line between blogging and traditional journalism on RuNet.
Colta.ru, Slon.ru, Snob.ru, PublicPost.ru, OpenSpace.ru...
Having sprung up over the last few years, these websites with eerily similar names also share a hip (if not to say hipster) sensibility of content and design, as well as protest-minded editorial direction.
Despite attempts at differentiation (Snob, for example, positions itself as an international collaboration of Russian-speaking professionals), it's difficult to tell them apart.
The ideological similarities are further exacerbated by the incestuousness of Moscow's Fourth Estate — for instance, Colta.ru is run by the former editorial team of the first iteration of OpenSpace.ru.
All this has led RuNet guru Anton Nosik to jokingly comment on the closure:
from the interview of the (now former) editor-in-chief Maksim Kovalsky to Colta.Ru we find out that the deceased publication aspired to be like Slon.Ru.
This admission is comforting, since Slon.Ru itself is alive and well, to the delight of its fans.
Blogger and journalist Maksim Kononenko remarked in a similar vein:
no one can make heads or tails of all these elephants , openspaces, colts, etc. everywhere the same sad content. everywhere the same old kashin. everywhere there are fewer unique visitors than there are staff.
Kononenko was referring to popular opposition journalist Oleg Kashin, formerly of Kommersant, who in fact does publish on Slon, Snob, Colta, and, until recently, OpenSpace.
Kashin had apparently left OpenSpace shortly prior to its closing, writing "I got the f*ck out of there just in time" on his Facebook.
Later that day he spoke disparagingly about the various theories for the closure springing up online:
Right now, this very minute - in chats, SMSes, open threads, elsewhere - a consensus is being born about what actually happened.
In the morning it will reach its final form.
If the gossips decide it's politics, it will be politics.
If they decide it's stubborn stupidity, it'll be stubborn stupidity.
We're waiting, all aflutter.
Contrary to Kashin's prediction a consensus was never fully formed.
Although the official line is that OpenSpace was closed at the behest of its investor, Vadim Belyaev, because it lacked financial viability, some think that the real reason was politics.
OpenSpace former editor-in-chief Maksim Kovalsky, said so in an interview to Bolshoi Gorod:
It doesn't matter how it was formulated to me — I am making certain conclusions.
I tend to think that the Kremlin is visible behind all of this.
Katya Gerasicheva, Kovalsky's colleague editor at OpenSpace entertainment-oriented sister project w-o-s.ru (still operational), agreed that the financial reasoning has a political subtext.
Roman Fedoseev, a former w-o-s.ru editor, explained why the financial version holds no water — both websites recently landed a lucrative ad contract which will now need to be canceled.
Also speaking to this is the fact that the decision was made in the span of a single day, with no request to increase profitability or reduce costs.
Fedoseev bleakly concluded:
the position "we are small, so they won't touch us" doesn't work anymore.
And yet, there is no getting away from the "strictly business" explanation.
After all, as previously mentioned, OpenSpace closed once before, during the summer of 2012 — a year after it was purchased by investor Vadim Belyaev, a deal that seemed to have saved the website from financial troubles.
This previous version of OpenSpace was much less political in nature and was presumably shut down for financial reasons.
It reopened a month later with a revamped website and a new team at the helm.
Neither lasted as long as the old.
Perhaps now Belyaev has simply ran out of patience with what seems to have been a troublesome purchase from the start.
Of course, there is a simpler, yet more piquant theory: rumor has it that he is married to w-o-s.ru editor, Gerasicheva, and, as they are currently getting a divorce, has decided to divest himself of their joint ventures.
There could be additional reasons.
Slon.ru editor Andrei Goryanov, for example, thinks that while an interesting experiment, OpenSpace was simply not a very good website.
Former NASHI press-secretary Kristina Potupchik, on the other hand thinks that the editorial team just wasn't productive enough:
6-7 articles per day, each with 2-3 thousand viewers isn't the type of structure that should be supported by twenty staff-members
Culture blogger Corpuscula chalks this up to a general malaise of new media on the RuNet.
According to her, even though there are several completely empty content niches, such large groups are simply too inefficient to take advantage of them.
Rather than hiring enthusiasts, RuNet investors do the following:
get together 20 people who won't write anything, pay them money to find people, who, for small amounts of money, will rewrite what enthusiasts have already written for free, profit!
According to Pavel Pryanikov at the standalone ttolk.ru , this was the story of Colta.
When Belyaev fired the old editorial team of OpenSpace, he gave them enough funds to run their own website for three months — thus, Colta was born.
The money did not last long, even with an additional crowd-funding donation push, and the website had to briefly close.
The reason was the size of the editorial team (11 contributing editors along with other staff), combined with with the low productivity of 17 articles per week, 6 of them written by the editorial team, the rest by outside authors.
Pryanikov claims that such bloated online publications are only possible through subsidies:
On a wave of semi-political demands of the "creative class" the state and the oligarchy are hastily creating fictitious jobs for them.
Colta reopened, presumably having found a sponsor.
Projects like it and OpenSpace keep getting funded.
And so, no one will be particularly surprised if half a year down the road Kovalsky and team end up editing some other website, an abstract Snap or CivicScope.
Oleg Kashin or Dmitry Bykov will be happy to write an opening column, and so the cycle will continue.
Should Alcohol be Legalised in Libya? · Global Voices
Libyan netizens are debating whether alcohol should be allowed in the country - after more than 50 people have died from drinking methanol-tainted home-made alcohol in Tripoli.
Another 470-plus people have been taken to hospitals for treatment, prompting a heated discussion on why lifting the alcohol ban would introduce legislation, which will in turn prevent such wide-scale tragedies from happening again.
Both drinking and the sale of alcohol are prohibited in Libya but a locally brewed concoction called bokha is sold on the black market.
According to the Libya Herald:
Instances of people dying as a result of drinking bokha, often distilled from figs, or being blinded are not uncommon although rarely reported.
There were several deaths last year.
Bokha is sometimes laced with methanol to increase its alcoholic content.
On Twitter, Khadija Ali writes :
@KhadijaMAli: If there was anything we should learn from the incidents which raise concern regarding alcohol is that we cannot continue to run away from our problems
Nairouz says:
@Rouznai: The alcohol poisoning and death is a national tragedy which young men and women are paying the price for
And Mohamed Mesrati adds:
@MohamedMesrati: Among people who died by the poisoned alcohol in #Libya rebels fought against Gaddafi during the revolution!
Shame!
Talk online is that some doctors have refused to treat patients because drinking alcohol is un-Islamic - and those who consumed the alcohol deserved to die.
On those, Mojahed Bosify says:
@mojahedbosify: The doctors who refused to treat those who were effected with alcohol poisoning are doctors of death and a shame on the profession.
They should be sacked
Rana Jawad opens a can of worms when she asks:
@Rana_J01: Is it time / is there social&political willingness to openly discuss alcohol consumption in #Libya?
Wld legalising prevent deaths?
Discuss..
Suilman Ali Zway responds:
@ILPADRINO0: The Hypocrisy (whether it was religious or social) of our society will prevent us from having an honest open debate about the matter
And Mohamed Eljarh explains:
@Eljarh: Majority in #Libya will refuse any form of legalization of alcohol consumption in #Libya even those who consume it & have always done.
Omar Mukhtar provides a solution:
@Libyan_Republic: Legalize alcohol. tax it and put these criminals out of business.
The criminals he refers to in this tweet are the manufacturers and peddlers of the home-brewed alcohol - bokha.
Further Reading:
Mohamed Mesrati published a two-part article on alcohol in Libya last month in online Libyan newspaper Al Kaf, in Arabic, which is available here and here.
Syria: "Lens of a Young Homsi", Photographs of a City under Siege · Global Voices
When demonstrations started in Syria in March 2011, a group of friends from Homs, all under 25, took their cameras to photograph these unprecedented protests in their city.
Soon after, they were photographing the destruction of the city´s streets and neighborhoods as a result of the regime crackdown.
Through their lenses, they aim to show the world what Homs was like, and what it has become, documenting memorial revolutionary moments from "the city of the revolution".
They receive daily requests from people who had to flee the city and want to know if their houses have been destroyed or not.
They insist that they are just a group of volunteers, with no professional training, but their work is outstanding.
They are the "Lens of a Young Homsi":
Photo by the “Lens of a Young Homsi”, taken from their Facebook page
This video shows some of their work and why Lens of a Young Homsi makes a difference to those who have been forced to flee their homes in Homs:
"Sandbags, barricades, soldiers armed to their teeth, bullets, bombs, checkpoints cutting out one district from the other..."
This is the scenario these young Homsis show through their lenses:
You can follow their work on Facebook and Twitter.
Hardline Buddhists Drive Sri Lanka to Drop Muslim Halal Labeling · Global Voices
Islamic clerics facing massive protests from militant Buddhists in Sri Lanka have put an end to the island's widespread halal labeling system for food.
New Sinhalese Buddahist group Bodu Bala Sena (Buddhist Strength Force) staged large rallies throughout February 2013 calling for the abolition of the Muslim halal system of certifying that foods and other goods follow Islamic dietary guidelines.
Food manufacturers in Sri Lanka, especially those who export to Middle Eastern countries, have long made all their products using halal methods to avoid the costs of two separate production lines.
The products were labeled with the halal certificate, issued by Islamic body All Ceylon Jamiyyathul Ulama (ACJU).
But protesters argued that it was unfair that Muslims, less than 10 percent of the Sri Lankan population, should force the majority Buddhist population to eat food prepared according to Islamic law.
Halal Logo.
Image courtesy Groundviews
In an effort to quash rising religious tensions, All Ceylon Jamiyyathul Ulama announced on March 11, 2013 that "in the interests of peace" it would stop issuing its certificate locally.
Twitter user "MajlisW1″ (@majlisW1) published ACJU President Al Shaikh Rizvi Mufti's statement:
@majlisW1: Those days Halal logo was a Must, now due to tense situation, the logo will not be compulsory but the companies can print it or leave it - Rizvi Mufti
News blog dbsjeyaraj.com reported that according to the Bodu Bala Sana, authorities have since promised to set up special police units to inspect shops still selling halal products.
Religious violence in Sri Lanka is on the rise.
The conflict with the Tamil Tigers may have ended but more and more hardliner Buddhist attacks on Muslims and Christians are being reported.
Shenali Waduge made the argument on community news site Lanka Web why non-Muslims should not have to accept halal products:
Most eating houses, restaurants never fail to display “halal certified, no pork” boards.
Whilst the cow is a sacred animal for both Buddhist and Hindus, how can it be acceptable to eat beef but not pork?
Why is it that only the religious preferences of just one ethnic community decides for the rest of the population when population is over 70%?
In any case there should not be any fee charged for Halal certification and no non–Muslim should be charged one cent or coerced to pay from his hard earned money to produce a benefit that accrues only to Muslims.
But citizen journalism website Ground Views noted that the protests against halal food have more to do with rise in anti-Muslim sentiment by Sinhala Buddhist nationalists than fairness:
In recent months there has been an increased outpouring of virulent anti-Muslim sentiment by persons claiming to speak for all Sinhala Buddhists.
Organized groups led by Buddhist monks have held public meetings, distributed pamphlets, and made press statements.
Articles in mainstream Sinhala and English newspapers have propagated ethnic and religious hatred.
The attacks on Muslims have been directed at everything: the certification of food products as halal; the practice of hijab, abhaya and nikab among Muslim women; the beard worn by Muslim men; the azaan or call for prayer from the mosques; the Muslims’ practice of closing businesses for Friday prayers; the prevalence of certain sectarian differences among Muslims;and the ongoing debate regarding methods of slaughter for the consumption of meat.
Citizen journalist Riza Yehiya wrote extreme Buddhists are hijacking the Buddhist community, souring Buddhist-Muslim relations:
This threat to the Muslim community is a challenge to this nation.
This is not from the mainstream Buddhist community that has a time tested relationship with Muslims.
It is from purpose made Buddhist extremist groups working as mercenaries to prop up failing political elites, consciously or unconsciously serving foreign interests than the hallowed purpose of protecting Buddhism.
Blogger R.M.B. Senanayake accused Sinhalese nationalists, including some Buddhist monks, of carrying out a hate campaign against Muslims publicly and on social media, chronicling recent incidents on his website.
Image courtesy Say No To Halal Facebook Page
Political blogger Indi Samarajiva wrote on his website Indi.ca that opposition party United National Party has contributed to the halal controversy, also calling for an end to the halal logo "in line with racist Sinhalese interests."
There is no Muslim conspiracy to take over Sri Lanka with halal food, citizen journalist Hejaaz Hizbullah noted.
Businesses have made their decisions when it comes to halal:
It’s certainly not the Muslim consumer but the businesses that crave for halaal recognition.
He continued:
What does worry many Muslims is how this ‘non-issue’ is being banged about by a fringe few and made into a national problem.
What we see is not an ‘issue’ but an agenda and a campaign of hate with ‘halaal certification’ merely an excuse.
They are waiting to pick a fight and so they pick on anything.
Blogger Patta Pal Baru opines that the campaign against ‘halal’ was unnecessary.
Kasun Adikari urged Buddhists to practice tolerance with fellow Muslims:
As Buddhists, we must know how to regard other religions and their practices as we belong to the religious group that accepts and appreciates the reasonable teachings of every religion.
Buddhists can also tolerate the practices of other religious, cultural traditions and customs, although they may not necessarily wish to emulate them.
Taiwan: Who Misled Noam Chomsky? · Global Voices
Chomsky's support for the anti-media monopoly campaign in Taiwan has been reported as being misled by activists.
The photo above, in which Noam Chomsky is holding a placard, is part of a global campaign organized by Taiwanese students against media monopoly in Taiwan.
Chomsky's photo has been circulated widely via online social media since early January 2013.
However, a number of news outlets recently reported that he was misled by Taiwanese anti-media monopoly activists into supporting the campaign.
What has exactly happened?
Who misled Chomsky?
In the past few days, a number of mainstream media outlets run by the Want Want China Times Group in Taiwan reported that Chomsky was misled by a young Taiwanese female student, Lin Ting-An.
Below is a list of translated headlines:
Chomsky: If I knew the campaign is against China, I would not have held the placard - China Times 04﹣02﹣2013
Anti-media monopoly became anti-China campaign, Chomsky was set up - China Times 29-01-2013
Misled to hold the placard, Chomsky: This is serious distortion - China Times 28-01-2013
In addition to the newspapers, the Citi TV channel, also controlled by Want Want China, ran a one-hour news commentary program on January 29 and 30, 2013 to “clarify” Chomsky's position.
The program accused Lin Ting-An, who invited Chomsky to hold the placard, of misleading and using the famous linguist, "the conscience of the U.S".
The commentators in the program also criticized the strategy of the media monopoly movement for singling out pro-China capital, namely Want Want China Times, for its campaign.
Below is a short clip of a Citi TV interview with Chomsky:
The media reports were triggered by email communications between Macau based media professor Shih-Diing Liu and Chomsky in which Liu explained his understanding of the anti-media monopoly movement in Taiwan on January 27 2013:
However, I am unsure if you have realized that this anti-media monopoly movement, with its high level of participation among young people, cannot be understood as a simply a movement seeking freedom of the press and democracy on the island.
The participants, speakers, and interveners (including the mainstream media, scholars, and groups who have followed along and appropriated the issue) not only focus on the issue of media resources being monopolized by capitalists but also point toward an enemy.
This enemy happens to be the one that the government of your country has been cautiously dealing with.
However, in the context of Taiwan and the Taiwan Strait, using the name of “defending Taiwan” to refuse, oppose, and reject all people and matters relating to China and the Chinese government is not an isolated phenomenon, and it needs to be placed in the hegemonic structure led by the United States that you have described so we can fully understand it.
The slogan in your hands should also be interpreted in a specific political context.
In response to Liu's long email Chomsky wrote a brief reply which was quoted and made public by Liu in his Facebook:
Thanks for the interesting comments, which go far beyond anything I know about.
I also don’t recall a placard referring to “Chinese manipulation.”
What I was shown, and held, didn’t go beyond media monopoly and freedom of press.
I hope that interpretations don’t go beyond that.
Attached to Chomsky's reply is Liu's rather lengthly interpretation which was picked up by China Times on its January 28 news report and turned into a news and commentary framework among Want Want China Times' media outlets for use against the anti-media monopoly campaign.
Liu interpreted Chomsky's photo as "abduction":
If Chomsky did not know about this demand , you have "abducted" him by asking him to hold a placard that expressed your own position.
Isn't this rather disrespectful?
Why didn't you explain clearly your anti-China position to him?
Why was the only English translation the slogan "anti-media monopoly"?
Why do you have to cover this up and not let him know your anti-China position?
Are you afraid that if Chomsky knew the position, he would not have shown his support?
That's why the slogan has been blurred?
Of course we don't know the real intention.
But if Chomsky did not know there is an anti-China factor in your movement and you placed him in the duck's window display , your political tactic is very poor!
What he knew and supported was against media monopoly and supported media and press freedom.
He doesn't want people to misinterpret and add "other favors" to his position.
The issue at stake is, some anti-China people and media have abducted him to strengthen their position.
Every movement has their own stand but they have to establish their position with valid means and reason.
According to such understanding, I don't know what would have happened if Chomsky had not been misled or fooled.
Those who asked him to hold the placard should know exactly what had happened.
It is obvious that he had not been told the compete message and been dragged to support your position.
The way the messages have been hidden and transplanted is as bad as the kind of distortion and monopoly that you criticize.
Under the flag of "anti-monopoly", you are doing the opposite.
To clarify the situation, Lin Ting-An posted her email communication to Chomsky in her Facebook.
The email, inviting Chomsky to join the campaign, explained in detail the background of the campaign against Pro-China media group Want Want China Times' acquisition of Next Media, with the translation of the placard slogans:
Here is now a horrible media monopoly event happening in Taiwan: The Pro-China Want Want China Times Group chairman, Tsia Eng-meng, is going to buy the Taiwanese branch of Next Media (which was owned by Hong Kong mogul Jimmy Lai).
If this purchase is approved, Mr. Tsai will control about 46% of Taiwan's newspaper market.
Mr. Tsai not only owns the newspaper (China Times, Commercial Times), but also the magazine, TV channel, and cable TV service, and his turning a blind eye to Beijing's human rights violations (He denies the Tiananmen square massacre) make us become really worried about the future of Taiwanese media.
In order to against this purchase and the government ignorance, Taiwanese students have launched several protests since November and will hold another one on New Year's Eve.
There is now an activity which urges global supporters to photograph themselves, holding the slogan of "Oppose Media Monopoly, Reject the black hand of China, uphold freedom of the press, I protect Taiwan in ___", and upload it online.
(I attached my photo which took at Yang Ming university, Taiwan.)
Although Chomsky has further clarified that he had not been misled by anyone and the incident was a "misunderstanding", his statement has not had much bearing on the major media outlets.
The debate about whether or not the China Factor should be stressed in the anti-media monopoly campaign has been a debate within the movement since day one.
On the one hand, activists are aware that the media liberalization policy since the 1990s has been the driving force of the capital monopoly of Taiwan mainstream media. On the other hand, the influence of mainland China capital, as well as its political agenda to take control of Taiwanese media corporations, has become more and more obvious in the Want Want China Times' acquisition of TV Cable Network and Taiwan Next Media.
Similar debates have been going on among activists for months.
After the Chomsky incident, in the anti-Want Want China Times campaign page, Jiangeng Chiou raised the issue again:
I think we should discuss if the "anti-media monopoly" should go hand -n-hand with "anti-China manipulation".
Currently the anti-media monopoly has attracted the public attention and it is a golden opportunity to campaign for media reform.
The blue vs green and unification vs. independence sentiment is not helping the campaign.
Let's take a look at the problem faced by Taiwan Public Television Service, the pressure faced by media workers in Taiwan not only comes from China, but also other political clans and capital.
Apart from China, we have to confront other political and corporate forces.
In a comment Charlene Delerk replied:
The key is China government wants to manipulate Taiwanese media.
Some people who have occupied special positions have become their groves .
The discussion of whether or not we should delete China factor in the campaign is serving their purpose of dividing our supporters.
This issue has been discussed some months ago, now people are still dancing with CitiTV and re-firing the rice that is also sour .
If they like China so much, they can go to China, no one stops them.
For those who are outside Taiwan, it is very difficult to understand the political dynamic and it seems rather inevitable that Chomsky be misled and distorted in such a media and political environment.
The Bobs Awards Are Back - Nominate Your Favourite Sites & Microbloggers today! · Global Voices
That blog or online activism site you visit each day without fail.
That microblogger whose 140 characters sparkle with such wit and insight.
Here's your chance to have those sites and users rewarded for their excellence by nominating them for the Bobs, Deutsche Welle's 9th annual international blog and social media awards.
Started in 2004, the Bobs—originally an acronym for "Best of Blogs"—were conceived by the German broadcaster as a means of demonstrating that blogging, then in its infancy, "was worthy of being taken seriously and to point to the excellent examples of work being done online to foster dialogue across language barriers."
In 2005, Global Voices was the winner in the Best Journalistic Blog category.
As the citizen media landscape has changed, the Bobs have adapted to suit.
Today, Deutsche Welle describes the Bobs more broadly as honouring "websites in 14 languages that champion the open exchange of ideas and freedom of expression."
Global Voices is a Bobs media partner once again this year, and three members of the Global Voices community will sit on the 15-person international jury—Global Voices en Français editor Claire Ulrich, Middle East and North Africa author Tarek Amr, and myself.
The jury will meet for two days of deliberations in May to select winners in the six main categories.
Winners in the other categories will be decided by the public through an online vote.
In 2012, the Bobs received over 3,300 submissions, and over 66,800 online votes were cast.
Members of the public can submit nominations in 34 categories in any of the following languages: Arabic, Bengali, Chinese, English, French, German, Indonesian, Persian, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Hindi, Turkish or Ukrainian—the latter three are new additions to this year's language line-up.
Also new this year is an award for microblogging, with nominations being sought for the best users of Twitter, Weibo and other platforms.
Awards for Best Blog and Best Person to Follow will be awarded for each languages, with blogs in all 14 languages vying for the top prize in the other four categories.
Eligible web sites must be accessible to the public, with no password restrictions or registration requirements.
Nominations for the Bobs are open until March 6.
Bobs web site in English: http://thebobs.com/english/
Turkish Women Speak Up: My Body, My Decision · Global Voices
Two weeks ago, Turkish courts released Fatih Nerede, who has a criminal history of rape and robbery, after he raped a woman in Diyarbakir, a city in the southeast region of Turkey, in front of her three year-old child.
The reason behind the decision to release him by the court pending trial is, that as the institution of forensic medicine told to the court “It is not possible to decide if the rape victim was psychologically damaged by the rape or not, before 18 months after the incident.”
This incident might be shocking but unfortunately it is not the only one.
In May 2012 , N.Y., a young girl who lives in Bitlis city of east region of Turkey, who had a mild mental disability, was raped by a man named S.I. and got pregnant after the incident.
According to N.Y.'s statement she was raped several times by S.I. and she got pregnant after the rape, which she hid from her family and had a miscarriage on the sixth month of her unwanted pregnancy.
She buried the dead body of the fetus.
She mentioned that, she was scared and she was threatened by S.I. and this was the reason why she did not talk about the rape to anyone.
It was the mother of N.Y. who discovered the tragedy, since her daughter was behaving suspiciously and differently.
The Institution of forensic medicine, prepared a report on the incident which shows the father of the dead fetus was S.I. by a chance of 99.9%, due the DNA tests.
The Bitlis Psychiatric Hospital also mentioned that, N.Y. was psychologically damaged by the rape.
Despite the reports, and the statement of N.Y., the court decided there was not enough evidence to proof that S.I. raped N.Y., so S.I. was acquitted.
Even though, Turkish women can be seen as "lucky" compared to women in other Muslim countries, they still suffer tremendously.
According to a study in 2009, only 40% of married women met their spouse on their own and decided to marry.
Fifty per cent of women tied the knot through an arranged marriage.
The same research shows that 35% percent of women have been subjected to physical violence by their husbands, at least once in their life.
In the East of the country, this number goes up to 40%.
Another problem for Turkish women is that they can not get their economical independence, since only 27% of work force in Turkey are women, according to TUIK (Turkish Statistical Institute).
And women are not represented in the parliament efficiently; there are only 79 women members of the 548-strong member parliament.
And 46 female members of the parliament are from the AKP (Justice and Development Party) -the ruling party.
That means there are only 33 women members of parliament are from the opposition - a mere 6% of the total number of the members of parliament.
The ruling party of Turkey, AKP, is also putting pressure on women in their speeches and politics on women and women rights.
In 2008 , Recep Tayyip Erdogan, prime minister of Turkey, said in a panel on World Women Day : “For keeping our young population increasing, give birth to at least three children.”
In 2011 , Erdogan was furious with Dilsat Aktas, a protester who climbed an armoured police-carrier and was beaten up by police and suffered a hip fracture.
He criticized her for attacking police.
This was less than a year after another female protester was attacked by the police, and lost her unborn child, eventhough she had begged the police not to kick her stomach because she was pregnant.
At the end of 2012 , another argument on women hit the headlines.
Erdogan said “Every abortion is an Uludere” by mentioning the Uludere or Roboski, as known in Kurdish, where 34 Kurdish civilian were killed by Turkish Air Force by an accident, while civilians were passing the border for smuggling and mistaken for terrorists by mistake.
But this was not only shocking speech for women.
During that same period, the Minister of Health talked about banning abortion: “They are asking what will happen to woman if she got raped and got pregnant?
If something happens like that, she should give birth to the child, and if it is necessary the government can raise the child.”
Blogger Jenny White spoke up saying:
What is more disturbing is the reasoning — that if births are not increased, Turkey — and Turkishness — will disappear off the map.
This is a jingoistic fear that resonates with the old racialist understanding of Turkishness as soy (lineage, descent), a blood-based nationalism like Germany’s jus sanguinis.
In such a conception of national membership, there is no room for immigrants, migrants, or minorities, even if they are culturally assimilated.
Ask the fourth-generation Turks in Germany.
Turkey-based writer and columnist Andrew Finkel wrote:
Already, the Turkish parliament has been barking at its master’s voice and is considering restricting the grounds on which, and the term of their pregnancy during which, women may seek an abortion.
Turkey liberalized abortion in 1983 in response to high rates of illegal terminations and maternal mortality.
If more women start dying again because they are forced to seek illegal abortions, then Erdogan’s odd analogy to the massacre at Uludere may turn out to be more apt than it should.
One of the comments on Andrew Finkel's post was telling of how horrible such statements are:
@AJBaker: Odd how often people with dictatorial instincts think it is their business to regulate a woman's fertility.
Both Hitler and Stalin opposed abortion and believed that women should have brood like hens.
Twitter user AncienRose shared a story of a woman who had an abortion when it was illegal in Turkey.
The story tells how hard and painful an illegal abortion was, and how prime minister's words can be real if abortion is banned:
Accidental Email Exposes Trolls of Governing Party in Spain · Global Voices
Opinion-givers, commentators, indoctrinators or more commonly trolls, are collateral damage of the new forms of communication.
These are people who leave comments on social networks, forums and news sites to try to influence public opinion in some way.
Sometimes they volunteer and sometimes they are paid. Companies, organizations and political parties use them, as much to favor the consumption of a product as to support their own political decisions or criticize those of another party.
They spend several hours a day leaving messages of this kind using one or many accounts and they change their identity often to avoid being connected to these activities.
The companies and political organizations firmly and systematically deny having anything to do with these opinion-givers.
On February 21, 2013, the online newspaper Renovación Balear.es , from the Periodista digital (Digital Journalist) website, published an article entitled The Balearic PP employs a group of 'opinion-givers' who comment online , in which it affirmed:
From the spheres of the different administrations, although from the Parliament itself as well, they receive emails every morning with clear and precise arguments about how to rebut the news that, in some way, is detrimental to the Balearic Popular Party. (…) The protagonists and receivers belong to a type of legion composed of about twenty people who must rebut, intensely, the opinions that freely navigate the Internet at the hand of the citizens, and that are poured out in the inevitable forums that emerge at the foot of all the news pieces published on local news websites.
It only took a month for these suppositions to be proven true.
On March 15 the Popular Party of the Balearic Islands accidentally sent an email to the media which was meant for its trolls. This email included instructions about the news that they should comment on and advice on how to intervene in the commentary.
Here are some extracts from the leaked email (the complete message can be read in the image that accompanies this text):
Good morning OPINION-GIVERS, Here is today's news to comment on:
Yesterday the Communication Cabinet sent out a press release to refute what the opposition is saying (…).
If you want to tweet the news we will give you the tweet that we sent out yesterday from the GPP .
And to comment on the press release on digital media here are all the arguments for its defense!
(…)
Maximum respect for those who want to support the strike.
We at the PP believe that, faced with this situation which we find ourselves in, things will not be solved with a strike.
(…) President Bauzá and Minister Company will present the Rent Plan for 2013 at 11am this morning.
It is very important that you pay attention to Twitter to be able to spread this good news at full speed.. (…).
Shot of the leaked email.
Image from the blog diseccionandoelpais with license CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ES
The news, published by several media outlets, was spread quickly by social networks, forums and online newspapers, which are the first victims of these trolls.
Paco Bello , on Iniciativa Debate (Debate Initiative) , informs us about the website where the Balearic PP finds its opinion-givers, who they call changers:
Don't miss the page where the trolls are drawn in (I don't mean to say that they all end up being one): http://www.canviadors.org/es/pp-balears-se-un-cambiador.html Considering that in the Balearic Islands there are already 2,051 members, in the whole country the number could be scandalous.
Litio5000 , on Foro Coches (Car Forum) , sharply reminds us of the last PP corruption scandal:
How much does one make? Under the table or legally?
I feel strange. I like that they pay the opinion-givers, or that they have a legion of fan boys.
I like that they are trying to convince people.
Up until not long ago, they would have chosen more violent and threatening ways to dominate a population that rises up against them.
It is a step forward.
On the same site, momentoflector makes a satirical point:
This news is false, in my opinion lies should not be published.
The important thing is that we are going to come out of the economic crisis with the measures of the government.
PS Did I do a good job?
Now what's in it for me?
Twitter also echoed news about the accidental email.
Lupe and Noógrafo tweeted:
@Lupe_: I just read about the Accidental Email.
I am becoming more and more convinced that the PSOE (Spanish Socialist Workers' Party) is in charge of the PP's communications.
‏@noografo: Is is true that they are so utterly stupid at the #PP or are they just entertaining us?
'Accidental email': Opinion-givers http://www.elmundo.es/elmundo/2013/03/15/baleares/1363344620.html …
A good part of those tweeting expressed their indignation about these practices, like David Lopez Canales and Diego Obiol:
@Lopezydavid: @TCAvendano@elmundoes and the worst thing is that all of the parties have this.
And even worse is that there are 'opinion-givers' that ask to do it...
@dobiol: Lapsus Email, #elconcepto and #laevidencia > the dis-información machine of the PP fed by paid opinion-givers.
The website Renovación Balear.es , which as was mentioned at the beginning, was the first to denounce these practices on the islands, ventures:
This bad practice, it can be assumed, therefore extends to all the autonomous communities, and leaves quite clear how the party spends and how it makes an effort to control and manipulate from the sideline the most elemental thing: the right to express oneself freely and without interferences or distortions.
Venezuela: Hugo Chávez has Died · Global Voices
This evening, vice-president Nicolás Maduro announced the death of the president of Venezuela, Hugo Chávez Frías.
President Chávez had been suffering from cancer since 2010 and had undergone various treatments on the island of Cuba on at least 4 occasions.
After winning the elections on October 7th 2012, which secured his mandate from 2013 to 2019, he announced in December that he had to return to Cuba for another operation.
More than 80 days later, during which he did not appear in front of the cameras, his health worsened as a result of respiratory complications and the advance of the cancer.
Twitter users reacted immediately to Maduro's announcement.
Hugo Chávez governed Venezuela from 1999 until 2013.
Defying the Government, Chinese Families Resurrect Graves · Global Voices
Scores of families have fought back against a controversial campaign in China's central Henan province to raze millions of graves for farmland and resurrected their ancestors' resting places during the Lunar New Year.
In the latest pushback against the government's plans to free up land, local residents throughout the province restored about half of the dug-up graves, or about one million , throughout February 2013, according to a local news report.
The campaign, put forward by a communist party leader in Henan in the spring of 2012 and touted by supporters as a smart use of land, has touched a nerve in a country where respect for ancestors runs deep.
Especially in the city of Zhoukou, where authorities have reportedly demolished more than two million graves, the campaign sparked public outrage over what many consider as a slap in the face of tradition.
Rich in history, Zhoukou is considered one of the oldest cities in China, and the grave-clearing program was suspended there in November 2012 after more than 100 scholars signed a petition in protest.
But the campaign continues in other parts of the province.
During the Lunar New Year, local families openly defied the government's warnings that their efforts to restore the flattened plots were in vain, Zhou Keluo wrote on the popular Chinese microblogging site Sina Weibo:
For thousands of year, we have visited our ancestors' graves.
This is our tradition.
You wipe your ass, dig up our ancestors' graves, and they are homeless.
They are moved to the public cemetery.
Then you cover the land with cement and take away the land forever.
Dig up the graves for agriculture, not a soul will believe this.
Fu Xi is stunned.
You use shovels to dig, move in the bulldozers, Fu Xi is stunned.
Dig up your own grave with 100 yuan reward, or else others will dig it up for you, Fu Xi is stunned.
Talk about the future and science, act like a tyrant, Fu Xi is stunned.
Fu Xi is stunned.
I am not Laozi, I am not Nuwa, I don't have palace, I have country.
Too far from equality, happiness is fake.
Destroying the graves is destroying our hearts.
Who would dig up a grave for greed?
I am scared of dig-grave style.
op-op-op-op dig-grave style.
Live in snail house when we are alive.
Homeless when we die.
Their graves are even bigger than Fu Xi's tomb and Ming Dynasty tombs.
Their ancestors and our ancestors were the same kind.
When they are alive, we can't give them a good life.
When they die, we can't pay our piety.
We can't face our parents.
My heart is broken and tears keep falling down.
I am official, I don't have green card, I have no rights, I have a country.
So many souls in the public graveyard, so little space.
Lost our land forever.
Who became the fool?
Creating trouble out of nothing, that's the way to survive.
Whether or not the campaign continues forward, the whole matter has become a public relations nightmare for the government, public affairs commentator Huang Quanwang pointed out:
Zhoukou city government is now in a very embarrassing situation.
Should it dig up the erected graves again?
If they insist to dig up the graves, they will probably need another set of approval documents and will definitely generate more confrontation and social conflict.
If they give up on digging up the graves, all their efforts will be rendered useless and the whole campaign another typical policy mistake.
China's Red Army Returns Online and Hunts Students · Global Voices
In China's Southern Guangdong province, the local government honored the Guangdong Baiyun University for its 'excellent work' in monitoring activities and opinions of students online, according to the Nandu Daily .
Nicknamed the "online red army" and led by nine teachers and six students, Guangdong Baiyun University's own “Student Internet and Social Media Information Monitoring” team was built in 2010 to watch student conversations and control negative sentiment online.
Their daily work involves monitoring online chat rooms, following microblogging and tracking online forums.
Hired students work 1.5 hours everyday and get paid RMB 200 ($32) per month.
Internet in China by Karen Roach via Shutterstock
The news immediately triggered online outrage; many think the university has violated student privacy and demand an immediate stop to the system.
However, many comments were deleted on Chinese microblogging site Sina Weibo and the "Online Red Army" soon became a censored word.
On March 20, Sina news published this commentary:
In accordance with the law, universities don’t have the right to monitor students’ (citizens’) online information.
No matter what the excuse they might have, this is against the law.
Student have the right to sue the university.
However, what’s pitiful and worrisome is that, not only can Baiyun University get away with this behaviour, but the “Baiyun Red Army - the online monitoring system" was selected as a successful example of "College Student Affairs Management Project" and praised and promoted by the Guangdong College Students Affairs Committee.
Lawyer Song Jian commented on Sina Weibo:
Thought-control is against human nature.
All colleges trying to make students spiritual slaves are garbage.
"止于至善_风飘絮" a college student from Guangdong requested Bai Yu University to provide the legal foundation and funding for this system:
Long Yingtai: Rights are being eroded everywhere.
Freedom of speech is something everyone should fight for and never sacrifice anytime or anywhere.
Please make the online red amy's legal foundation and funding public.
Referring to Das Leben der Anderen, a German film about the monitoring of East Berlin in 1984 by agents of the secret police the Stasi, online personality “薛蛮子” wrote , Is "1984" found in Baiyun college?
The scary "Online Red Army" monitors students' microblogging, online forum and QQ group.
What is Baiyun University's management worried about?
Who will protect the privacy of the students?
Behind the monitor system, would they punish the students who complain?
When students with firm political stand are hired to watch their own classmates, how far are we from Das Leben der Anderen?
In response to the online outrage, Baiyu University republished an article from the Legal Daily on March 20, titled “To Clean the Internet, We Need Online Red Army”.
It concludes:
Baiyun College’s “online red army” has made outstanding contribution to the construction of socialist spiritual civilization.
Shouldn’t other schools, factories and organizations learn from them?
Looks like the red army will be sticking around for a while.
Every Minute Six Patients are Diagnosed with Cancer in China · Global Voices
It's official. The 'plague' of cancer is at the center of a major public health crisis in China.
Six patients are diagnosed with cancer every minute, that's 8,550 new cancer patients every day, according to the 2012 China Cancer Census (2012中国肿瘤登记年报) .
The report states that 13 percent of these cancer patients will die.
Many believe the rapid increase in cancer rates is a result of environmental pollution from the last few decades of intense growth in China.
The Cancer Census report was published in January 2013, but didn't receive much coverage.
Chinese media were busy focusing on the National People's Congress (NPC) and Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC).
On April 7 and 8, however, the report was repackaged as a public health crisis by various news outlets, eliciting strong and often emotional debates on China's major social media platforms.
A commentator called Tulao 8 (@土魯8) , from Guangzhou, said on Sina Weibo:
China is a cancer country.
Every minute six people are diagnosed with cancer.
This is a terrible figure.
This is the fruit that ordinary people can enjoy after 30 years of open door policy and reform.
Some people are happy about the situation and they see everything as their achievement. Some people are struggling with death and they don't know who is the murderer.
Some know who do this to them but can't do anything to stop their bodies from being slowly eaten by the filth.
A map of China's 'cancer vllages'.
Environmental authorities in China had already confirmed the existence of so-called 'cancer villages' , with 3000 toxic chemicals identified and found across China (excluding data from autonomous regions such as Tibet, Xinjiang and Qinghai.)
Chinese media has reported as many as 459 cancer villages.
It is not unusual to find a 10 percent incidence of cancer in these villages .
The worst case is in Zhai Wan Cun in Hubei province; there the cancer rate is 80 times higher than the national level .
The village only has a population of 3000, but more than 100 people with cancer died there between 2003-2006.
The average cancer rate in developed countries is around 3 percent.
Beyond these staggering figures, many micro-bloggers painted the real situation in their cancer-ridden communities.
A blogger calling himself 'Better to be poor at home' (@在家貧亦好) on Sina Weibo described :
I visit my home village during Qingming festival, the two villages nearby have many cancer patients and many have died because of cancer. The first village has 5 and the other one has 6.
Most of them are between 30-50, so this is quite odd.
The villagers blame ill fortune, but something must have gone wrong for so many cases to appear in the rural villages.
The authorities should investigate the cause.
Another calling himself 'Red leaves on the mountain' (@山山紅葉), from Tai An City in Shandong province, said :
Our Tai'an city has been surrounded by factories.
Our villages have been forced to move because of the construction of a aluminum factory.
They tried to petition but were stopped.
The television reporters have been pressed by government officials.
Our land is no longer suitable for growing crops and can only be rented to factories.
The number of cancer patients has increase in an explosive manner.
Deng Fei (@鄧飛), an activist who campaigns against water pollution in China by asking people to document polluted rivers, re-posted a private message sent to him by an online friend:
#Letter from an online friend# Teacher Deng, tears come out when I see that you have raised concern about the pollution of underground water.
I left my home village to Shanghai when I was very young but my relatives are still living near Weifang and PIngdu in Shandong province.
Now every family can tell a story about cancer.
My sister's parents in law were both diagnosed with cancer last year.
Now her father-in-law has passed away but mother-in-law is still receiving treatment.
I would like to thank you for what you have done to the people in that piece of land.
Cang County in Hebei is an example of a region with high cancer rates, and has suffered in the past from high levels of underground water pollution.
Charles Xue (@薛蛮子), an investor highlighted the news:
#Comment on the "red bean" pollution incident in Cang County in Hebei# The head of Environmental Department in Cang County has finally been sacked because of netizens' criticism.
The report came out and the residue of chemicals has exceeded 70 times the safety standard.
In the village, there are 30 diagnosed cancer patients and 26 of them have died.
The villagers have been protesting but all these years, all the reports from the county to the province's environmental departments said that the water quality is safe?!
How can they pass the water quality test every year?
Among 655 cities in China, 400 depend on underground water supplies, so what can we do?
What can our kids do?
Another commentator called 'Little Dadada' (@小达达哒) blogged about the cancer death toll in Fuzhou city from Fujian province.
Fuzhou City constitutes 19.3% of the population of Fujian province, and the annual death toll from cancer patients is more than 11,000.
The cancer death rate has topped all the middle to small size cities in the country.
A user called 'Huihui Da'（＠回回達）concluded by noting sarcastically that:
Well, We drink pork soup , eat poisonous bread, toxic sprouts produced by industrial farming, breathe in toxic smog.
Of course we have cancer.
Residents Displaced by Brazilian Power Plant Struggle to Earn Living · Global Voices
This story by Ana Aranha was originally titled Vidas em Trânsito ("Lives in Transit") and is part of Brazilian investigative journalism agency Pública's special coverage #AmazôniaPública, which reports on the impact of mega-construction projects in the Amazon along the Madeira river in the state of Rondônia, Brazil.
The story will be published in a series of five posts on Global Voices Online. Previous post: Construction Project Fuels Sex and Violence in Brazilian Amazon
Next post: Displaced Residents Accuse Brazilian Power Plant of False Promises In the first article of this series, Agência Pública reported on the social chaos that has taken over a fishing town in the Madeira river region due to the Jirau Dam construction project.
Leaving the dusty streets of Jaci Parana 15 kilometers further down the national highway, the village of New Mutum Parana stands in stark contrast with Jaci.
The only similarity with Jaci is the group of men in uniform at the bus stop at the end of the day .
But in New Mutum Parana, all the roads are paved.
There are sidewalks and large roundabouts with lawns planted in the center.
Everything is planned and symmetrical.
There is a commercial zone and a residential one, which holds 1,600 houses in different blocks.
In each block, the houses are identical and so are the lawns separating them.
A deserted street in Nova Mutum Parana, a village built by the Jirau power plant, which contrasts with Jaci's demographic explosion.
Photo: Marcelo Min
New Mutum Parana was planned and built by Energia Sustentável (Sustainable Energy) to house the engineers and officers of Jirau - workers that bring their families with them to the Brazilian state where they are working.
Instead of folk music and bare stomachs, pregnant women and little children appear at the front doors of their homes as the men make their way towards the bus stop.
The largest part of the village is occupied by workers. At the entrance, there is an area reserved for the 150 families brought from Old Mutum Parana, a village of river dwellers that was removed to flood the area for the power plant.
The community had around 400 families, and the majority of inhabitants chose to receive the compensation.
New Mutum is the apple of the eyes of Energia Sustentavel's social corporate responsibility advertisements.
Ads about sustainability are spread around town and stay side by side with pictures showing river dwellers and workers, always accompanied by the company’s seal.
But after walking around for a few minutes with no one in sight, the question is unavoidable: Where is everyone?
“The houses are really pretty, but what about our existence?”, asks Rovaldo Herculino Batista, a river dweller who sold the house he received from the power plant company because he did not find a job in Nova Mutum:
Burundi: Violent Suppression of Demonstration Support for Imprisoned Journalist · Global Voices
On Tuesday January 8, 2013, the Court of Burundi sentenced Hassan Ruvakuki, journalist and correspondent for the Radio France International (RFI) Swahili service, on appeal, reducing his sentence from life imprisonment to three years.
Since that date, media professionals had demonstrated outside the Court every Tuesday until they were violently stopped and dispersed by the authorities in Bujumbura on February 19.
News blog africanaute.com published an article about these events:
Burundian civil society organizations and the media are generally able to express themselves openly and to investigate and denounce human rights abuses when they occur.
But at the same time, these basic freedoms are under threat.
Burundian activists and journalists face persistent intimidation, harassment, and threats by government and intelligence officials.
Several draft laws before the National Assembly in 2012, including a revised press law and a law on public gatherings, contain severe restrictions to freedom of expression and assembly.
According to an article posted by website arib.info on February 26, 2013, workers in the information sector wearing T-shirts with a picture of Hassan Ruvakuki had again gathered together in Independence Place, right in the middle of Bujumbura, to start a silent march towards the Court.
This support for Hassan Ruvakuki has passed the borders of Burundi.
More than 2650 media and press workers and sympathisers from several African countries had signed a petition demanding his release.
The leaders of Burundi need to understand that, as in other African countries, not respecting legislative texts during management of government normally results in violence and political instability.
As Liberal Russia's Secret Superhero 'KermlinRussia' Unmasks, Some See Evil · Global Voices
Fans of fallen superheroes and Godwin's Law - as an online discussion grows longer, the probability of Nazi or Hitler comparison approaches - read on.
“The banality of evil” is a phrase coined by Hannah Arendt fifty years ago in her book about German Nazi SS lieutenant colonel Adolf Eichmann, that concludes that great evils in history were not executed by fanatics or sociopaths, but by ordinary people who accepted the status quo and believed their actions were normal.
Arseny Bobrovsky is not Adolf Eichmann.
He certainly never killed anyone—indeed, he’s broken no laws at all.
But for some on the RuNet, he represents pure evil.
Bobrovsky, the owner of a Russian PR firm called “Daily Communications,” would be a thoroughly typical example of Moscow’s “creative class” liberals, were it not for one thing: Bobrovsky has a secret identity.
At least he did, anyway, until March 25, 2013, when he and his accomplice Katya Romanovskaya outed themselves to the world as the authors of KermlinRussia, one of the most popular accounts on Russian Twitter.
With well over half a million followers today, KermlinRussia—a parody of Dmitri Medvedev’s first Twitter name—is widely regarded as one of the chief mouthpieces of the liberal opposition movement.
Within hours of this “coming out,” the usual suspects involved in anti-opposition news breaks (in this instance, the formidable Stanislav Apetyan) had uncovered the curious fact that Bobrovsky helped manage a public relations campaign for one of the most hated institutions on all the RuNet: the Safe Internet League (abbreviated as LBI, in Russian).
That organization, of course, is most notorious for spearheading the RuNet Blacklist, a federal censorship initiative launched last summer, designed to purge the Web of content dangerous to children.
(Critics, however, argue that the extrajudicial mechanism is a slippery slope to a wider crackdown on digital free speech.)
Damage control
The timing of this revelation couldn’t have been better for Apetyan, who just four days earlier was singled out on Facebook by Yandex-co-founder Ilya Segalovich as a hired LBI stooge.
On March 21, 2013, Segalovich cited a March 18 post on LBI’s Vkontakte page, where the League named Apetyan’s blog and summarized his finding that the vast majority of RuNet public figures’ Facebook followers are bots.
“For me personally,” Segalovich declared, “the issue of the League is now settled,” arguing that any affiliation with Apetyan discredited it entirely.
As it turned out, a far more important collaborator with the League was Bobrovsky, whose KermlinRussia account is an online hero to Russian liberals.
After Apetyan’s discovery circulated, Bobrovsky published a long self-defense to KermlinRussia’s Facebook account, explaining the details of his past work for LBI, as well as his reasons for serving such an odious client.
Almost two thousand words long, Bobrovsky’s text—a potpourri of confession and rationalization—is something to behold.
At certain times, he is repentant:
Here began the grey zone of my conscience.
At this moment, I asked a number of questions, the answers to which I already knew.
I also knew that would lie to me.
My conscience fought with my professional ambitions.
The bottom line is that I’m more ambitious than I am conscientious.
Elsewhere, Bobrovsky tries to justify his decisions under a rubric of consummate professionalism:
But I wanted to do this project.
Because only these kinds of projects can truly show your mettle as a professional.
He later adds:
As a professional, I’m entirely unashamed.
I completed my work very well and got out of there, carrying out the business-PR for Marshal Capital , and managing to pass the account onto a colleague within a couple of months.
“Professionalism” and the opportunity to demonstrate his talents for manipulating public perceptions were key drivers in Bobrovsky’s decisionmaking.
At first, he avoided taking LBI’s contract, instead recommending a competitor, Victor Michaelson .
According to Bobrovsky, Michaelson’s firm botched the job, mounting a slapdash press conference that won the League more bad press for founder and board chairman Konstantin Malofeev (who also founded Marshall Capital, Daily Communications’ direct employer). Bobrovsky says he only stepped in after this media blowup, unable to resist the challenge. (“Crisis PR,” he writes, “is the most interesting type of project.”)
Presumably to show how uninterested in money he was, Bobrovsky even reveals the value of the contract Daily Communications finally did accept: 330 thousand rubles (roughly 10 thousand dollars) per month.
Bobrovsky claims that Michaelson’s fee was almost two-and-a-half times more—amounting to over 150 thousand dollars for six months’ labor.
What Bobrovsky doesn’t say, curiously, is that he was promised 20% of Michaelson’s contract earnings.
According to Michaelson, Bobrovsky fought to receive 20% of the contract’s full value, even after LBI dropped Michaelson’s firm, six weeks into the campaign.
Bobrovsky did get 20% of those six weeks (about three thousand dollars), but this apparently bred bad blood between him and Michaelson, culminating in KermlinRussia’s Facebook post, where Bobrovsky announced to the world (perhaps as an embellishment or maybe as an honest disclosure) that Michaelson couldn’t cut the mustard with LBI.
Not everyone is buying it
Earlier that evening, on March 25, Tonia Samsonova, a firebrand journalist for Slon.ru, Ekho Moskvy, and Dozhd television, responded to Bobrovsky’s unmasking.
Samsonova, who interviewed a still-masked Bobrovsky in May 2012, expressed on Facebook her unease about his now-revealed résumé:
Yesterday, Arseny (KermlinRussia) and I met in a cafe.
I came home and laid down to sleep at 7 PM.
I had nightmares.
Because Arseny did things that I can’t justify, and wrote texts for Forbes.ru, with which I partially agree (though on the key issue it seems we’ll never agree).
Samsonova’s reservations about Bobrovsky’s “unjustifiable acts” and questionable texts echo the thoughts she aired in their televised May 2012 encounter, when both individuals sparred about KermlinRussia’s op-ed column for Forbes.ru, where Bobrovsky regularly argues that all Russian wealth (small and large) travels “dishonest paths.”
(The idea being that no Russians can escape the petty incrimination that accompanies survival.)
Samsonova plainly objected to this notion, telling her guest that he was simply wrong.
In KermlinRussia’s later Facebook post, published hours after Samsonova’s “I had nightmares” comment, Bobrovsky countered that perhaps she ought to weep over her work for Ekho Moskvy, which is owned by Gazprom and headed by Alexey Venediktov, who is suspected of conniving with the regime at critical moments of the 2011-2012 winter protest movement.
Ordinary motives?
And what of Bobrovsky’s fate?
He and his KermlinRussia colleague Ms. Romanovskya have apparently joined the regular staff at GQ Russia, which the magazine's chief editor, Michael Idov, announced in a heartfelt message to readers in the current issue.
The duo is still updating KermlinRussia, and Bobrovsky by all accounts will continue to write articles for Forbes.ru, where one of his most recent compositions (ironically, given this week’s revelations) attacked none other than the League for a Safe Internet.
Reading that text, one wonders how Bobrovsky expected readers to view his column, once his past affiliation with LBI came to light.
Did he give it any thought?
In that February 6 piece , he writes:
Declaring a fight against child pornography and pedophilia is an effective means of getting 100% public support and a high level of public trust in the League’s projects, so that society related as uncritically as possible to any of their actions.
It’s very similar to the style of Vladimir Putin, who in 2004 under the flag of a war against terrorism for some reason canceled gubernatorial elections.
Bobrovsky, of course, knows precisely what inspired LBI’s PR campaign.
He was, after all, the man behind it.
This excerpt above, perhaps better than anything he has said in the last week, displays the cognitive dissonance that colors Bobrovsky’s self-awareness.
Is this a modern, diluted manifestation of Arendt’s “banality of evil”?
In the postscript to her book, Arendt explains that the subtitular banality referred specifically to Eichmann’s bizarrely conventional rationale for his monstrous deeds:
Except for an extraordinary diligence in looking out for his personal advancement, he had no motives at all.
And this diligence in itself was in no way criminal .
By talent and tenacity, KermlinRussia has earned its place among the RuNet’s most beloved personalities.
Indeed, Bobrovsky seems to bring that purposefulness to all his endeavors—both netizen and professional, both good and evil.
Egyptian Hashtag Takes on Homophobia! · Global Voices
A recent social media call to fight homophobia stirred a lively and heated discussion.
In Egypt, it's still taboo to have public debates on sexuality related topics, whether on or offline.
Although homosexuality is not mentioned in Egypt's penal code, state authorities have prosecuted gays using laws on prostitution and morality.
A Facebook event was created by Ramy Youssef in response to the increasing homophobic attacks on social media.
According to him, a recent social media trend is "Crushes" pages, used by students to express their feelings towards others, witnessed some expressing their feelings for people of the same sex, resulting in numerous homophobic slurs.
Youssef wrote:
I invite you to an electronic campaign, including comment on homophobic posts in these pages, and tweeting, and posting on social media websites.
We should say what do we think frankly about homophobia, say NO, express, oppose, get angry, this is the time for movement against homophobia.
The hashtag #ضد_رهاب_المثلية (Against homophobia) attracted many supporters and opponents as well.
Nada Louis writes :
@nadalouis: Against homophobia because certainly there's at least one close person in your life who is gay and you don't know about it.
Nadim questions:
@nadimx: You know what's the problem with the attackers?
They don't vehemently attack extremists that live in blood, murder and rape as much as they attack people who love each other in a different way.
Who's the pervert here?
Salma El Tarzi explains:
@Salma_El_Tarzi: Because in reality, you're worried for your fragile masculinity and you're not against the concept itself.
The evidence is some men are excited by the idea of two women together but disgusted by the idea of two men.
Amira Nosseir reinvents the biblical verse:
@Amira_Nosseir: Give what is Caesar's to Caesar and what is between your legs is a personal freedom.
Dina Magdi confirms:
@Dodzym: A gay/lesbian is not sick and because he's a man and likes men doesn't mean that he will think of you in a sexual way if you hug him.
Mona Sadek shares:
@Lemonada1: Against homophobia because those obsessed with rejecting anyone who's not like them, and obsessed that they're responsible for people and their choices have an issue with themselves not with others.
She adds:
@Lemonada1: Against homophobia so that a gay person can declare their sexual orientation and lead a normal life, with getting involved in a marriage against their will and create a broken family.
Amr Jamil reasons:
#ضد_رهاب_المثلية "أصل ده حرام" .. يعني إنت بتتحشر في أكتر علاقتين خاصين بالإنسان (علاقته مع ربنا) و (علاقته مع حد في السرير)..
@AmrJamil: "It's a sin", this means you're interfering with the two most personal relationships for people; their relationship with God and their relationship in bed. Homophobic graffiti was turned into an anti-homophobic one in Cairo.
Photo shared by Leil-Zahra Mortada
Leil-Zahra Mortada shared a before and after photo of a homophobic graffiti that was remade by some activists into a anti-homophobic one.
The graffiti is located at Mohamed Mahmoud street which witnessed many of the clashes between police forces and revolutionary protesters.
The graffiti originally read "Cops are gays" in a way aiming to insult police officers, heavily criticized for the brutal use of force against protesters.
After being retouched, the graffiti reads "homophobia is not revolutionary".
Part of the comment attached to the photo reads:
You won't believe how much the regime that we all fight against is based on patriarchal idea that hates gays like you.
We all don't want to curse the regime only but also burn it down but don't use women, lesbians and gays, sex workers, belly dancers, because it's sexual discrimination and it's not revolutionary.
This is an insult to your revolutionary comrades that stand with you in the face of a murderous regime.
This is called chauvinistic lowness and backward thinking.
The same mentality that we want to change and build a better society in its place.
The same thinking that kills us.
Other tweets express more anger.
Maie Panaga rants:
@MAIEPANAGA: It's not a phobia, those are sons of bitches that don't believe in the freedom of a person in their choices and their body in the name of society or morality or religion.
Screw you!
Others weighed in sarcastically.
Gharebon says:
@Gharebon: Because simply everyone has the right to 'cum' the way they like to.
Abanob mocks:
@ABA_NOB: You called them "faggots"?
You felt like a man?
You felt happy?
The hashtag continued for more than 24 hours and created an opportunity for Twitter users discuss the issue, however many homophobic slurs were thrown at proponents of equality.
For example:
@7amidovich: Together to ruin this hashtag, together we eliminate "faggots".
Southeast Asia Lionizes 'Iron Lady' Margaret Thatcher · Global Voices
A snapshot of reactions across Southeast Asia to the death of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher provides a rather solemn albeit positive reflection on the Iron Lady.
Thatcher, who died on April 8, 2013 at the age of 87 after a stroke, was Britain's first female leader and the first woman to lead a major Western power.
The merits of her economic and social reforms, put into place over the course of her 11 years in office, remain a source of debate.
To start, a humorous photo mix-up in Thailand.
Channel 5, a state-owned television, mistakenly showed a picture of Meryl Streep, as opposed to Thatcher, causing much confusion among Thai viewers.
A stream of online reactions to this embarrassing saga spread across the cyberspace, prompting Channel 5 to release an apology on its Facebook page.
Thailand's state-run TV showing actress Meryl Streep as former UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher
Saksith Saiyasombut believed the mistake was a result of a quick Google picture search:
Obviously, this was the result of a quick Google picture search and taking the next best picture that showed up.
But it does beg the question whether or not this will be the last time that a TV newsroom will make such a (admittedly hilarious) mistake and confuse the real world figures with the actors playing them – we probably can expect to see future mix-ups like Hellen Mirren as Queen Elizabeth II or Morgan Freeman as Nelson Mandela!
Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Photo from Wikipedia On a more serious note, references to the "Iron Lady" from countries with female prime ministers concluded that their leaders seem to lack the "iron quality" that Thatcher had.
Chuvit Kamolvisit, a Thai MP, called Thai PM Yingluck Shinawatra a "Puppet Lady" who has a lot to learn from Thatcher.
Noom Maung Non wrote:
Margaret declared war with Argentina to protect the Falklands, which were far far away from England.
But in case, the Khao Praviharn belongs to us Thai but Yingluck wants to give way to the Cambodians.
Meanwhile, in the Philippines, Dave Llorito wrote a piece in 2007 aptly titled "Gloria Arroyo is no Thatcher" arguing that while the former president of the Philippines tried to implement Thatcherite policies, she ultimately failed because "Arroyo lacked the soul" of the Iron Lady.
In Indonesia, a Jakarta Post reader mourned the loss of an important world leader and wished that his country could have a leader like Thatcher:
...someone with that sort of valor, the sort of dominant spirit that is not afraid.
We need a piece of iron to smash corruption and inconsistency in this country.
Singapore, on the other hand, seems to have no shortage of iron-type leaders.
Thatcher herself confessed on her first visit to Singapore in 1985 that Lee Kwan Yew was among the few world leaders she most admired for his leadership calibre. Some Singaporeans agree. LesMISERABLES wrote on the Courtyard Cafe that what Thatcher did to the world paled in comparison to what Lee Kwan Yew did for Singapore.
Sammyman said:
Both are neoliberal.
But Lee is dictatorial.
Thatcher won elections freely.
Likewise, Johnny333 claimed:
Under LKY (Lee Kuan Yew) true unions did not exist.
NTUC is nothing more than another PAP (Singapore's ruling party) organisation.
Writing on the philosophy and politics blog Philolitics, seamus23efc preferred Thatcher over Lee:
Despite me disliking both Maggie and Harry, who would I choose?
Definitely not the one who outlawed protests, freedom of speech and assembly, who engages in smearing campaigns against opposition politicians and showing disrespect to them and the ones that wages war indirectly with the working class with salaries higher than President Obama’s.
If I could choose between these two people, I would go for Maggie.
Japan's Jaded Public Pushes for Nuclear Truth Post-Fukushima · Global Voices
Two years after the powerful earthquake and resulting tsunami off the northeastern coast of Japan triggered a meltdown at the Fukushima nuclear power plant, the Japanese people are becoming increasingly frustrated with the government's reluctance to come clean on the risks associated with nuclear power.
A Japanese citizen advocacy group called Let’s Decide Together organized a large protest on March 10, 2013 to call for a national referendum on the future of nuclear power in Japan, the latest of many citizen-led efforts to shape the country's energy policy away from nuclear power since the Fukushima disaster, the largest nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.
In the wake of the tsunami, critics around the world blasted the Japanese government for withholding information about the meltdown from the public, delaying local evacuations and exposing some people unnecessarily to high levels of radiation.
The World Health Organization has concluded that those in the most contaminated areas around the Fukushima plant have elevated risks of contracting cancer, from a 7 percent increased risk of leukemia for males exposed to the radiation as infants, to a 6 percent increased risk of breast cancer for females exposed as infants.
Nuclear Free Now Global Demonstration Hibiya, Tokyo.
Photo by Masahiko Murata
Though public pressure after the accident led to the shutdown of all but two of Japan's 50 nuclear reactors, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe recently announced that plants that pass the country's new and stricter safety guidelines could be brought back online within the year.
But the government's emphasis on safety has not calmed Fukushima residents and activists around the country who demand more information about the dangers of nuclear power, no matter how bad the news may be.
The Fukushima Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Safety, co-hosted by the Japanese government and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) from December 15-17, 2012 in the city of Koriyama in Fukushima Prefecture, not far from the nuclear power plant, exposed the growing gap between the government and its people on the matter of nuclear energy.
The conference, in which 117 countries and 13 international organizations participated, was held to discuss and strengthen nuclear safety as well as learn from the Fukushima disaster.
Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan summarized the intent of the Fukushima government conference, spotlighting the government's commitment to its safety campaign:
We have learned that the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) will establish two research centers in Fukushima Prefecture, as part of the Prefecture's ”Environmental Creation Center.”
Based on the nature of the IAEA, we perceive it to be a global nuclear power promotion industry, emphasizing the peaceful use of nuclear and understating its risks.
It is quite difficult to imagine and understand what such an institution is planning to do coming here to Fukushima.
Many of us affected by the nuclear power plant disaster are questioning whether these research centres will have any benefit for those affected, and are concerned about the real intention.
It also emphasized the uncertainty that local residents are forced to live with as long as the government presses safety campaigns over information about the reality of the situation:
All that the government has done is to conduct a “safety campaign,” by telling people that “there are no immediate health risks”, or “it is alright to be exposed to 100μSv of radiation per year.”
The residents of Fukushima are forced into a difficult decision between the fear of radiation, which cannot be seen or smelled, and the authorities' “safety campaign,” which is causing great distress and fraction between families, friends and neighbors.
The agency replied to the request on January 17, 2013, stressing that they are not a decision-maker when it comes to nuclear matters in Fukushima or the rest of Japan:
We want IAEA to remember, Fukushima prefecture has already decided to renounce nuclear power .
There is one other thing.
Please tell us the truth about Chernobyl, Please speak the truth of the health effects after Chernobyl.
Lastly, in the three-day conference starting from today, please talk about the dangers of nuclear power, not the promotion of the safety of nuclear power plants.
And please switch the agenda to eliminate the nuclear power plants in the world.
Please don’t decide on anything about Fukushima without the Fukushima people, us!
Kyania, who evacuated from Fukushima to Kyoto with her child after the nuclear meltdown, has documented her experience in a blog.
On December 21, 2012, she published a document composed by citizens submitted to Fukushima Prefecture protesting the presence of IAEA in Fukushima overseeing decontamination and other aspects of the disaster clean-up.
She also reinforced how important it is for people to know what is going on after the disaster in order to protect themselves:
Each and every one of us should realize that only you can protect yourselves and your families, so keep collecting information on your own.
If you feel butterflies in your stomach, I want you to continue taking actions on what you can do, no matter how small they are.
The thumbnail image used in this post is taken and shared by Masahiko Murata.
Migrant Workers Shooting in Greece Sets Off #BloodStrawberries Boycott · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Europe in Crisis.
Supervisors shot and injured dozens of undocumented migrant workers from Bangladesh in the strawberry farms of southwestern Nea Manolada for demanding months of owed wages, the latest incident in a country where antipathy toward immigrants is on the rise.
The horrific show of violence on April 17, 2013 sparked uproar throughout Greece, prompting netizens to launch a boycott of the "blood" strawberries that originate at the scene of the crime.
Following national and international outcry, Greek police arrested three suspects in connection with the shooting, and charged them with attempted murder on April 19, 2013.
The country's citizen protection minister promised that none of the victims would be deported from Greece, and the ministry announced that it is considering granting them residency permits on humanitarian grounds.
This grainy mobile phone video, posted on YouTube by Kathimerini journalist Kostas Onisenko, shows the injured migrant workers laying on the ground a few minutes after they were shot:
Racism and ethnic nationalism on the rise in the economically devastated country, with extremists, such as the neo-Nazi “Golden Dawn” party, thriving on racist rhetoric, systematic violations of human rights, and the ill-treatment of immigrants.
Just three days before the Manolada incident, Citizen Protection Minister Nikos Dendias, as well as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, were criticized in a report issued by the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights for rhetoric stigmatising migrant.
Dedalos (@dedalos_gl) commented on Twitter:
@dedalos_gl: What was the greek government's answer to the late report for the human rights in greece #Manolada? #Dendias_resignation
Initially, mainstream TV channels barely — if at all — mentioned events in Manolada.
It was Twitter users from Greece and those responding from abroad that drew public attention to the incident, as Craig Wherlock (@teacherdude) pointed out:
@teacherdude: Greek TV news shamed into covering #Manolada shooting.
This afternoon, it was 6th item on NET and not reported at all on Star.
See my TL
As news of the shooting spread, Twitter erupted in shock and outrage.
User @MavriMelani shared a photograph of the wounded workers:
@Cyberela: Reviving the KKK at #manolada.
Migrants being shot because they demanded their 6 months owed fees. #bloodstrawberries
Questioning how something so terrible could happen, Katerina Kanelidou (@KatKanelidou) wrote: @KatKanelidou: How do we allow such things to happen?
@hchrono: Slavery and barbarity.
Greece welcomes the Middle Ages #manolada
Combining the titles of the famous song by The Beatles and a film about the Cambodian genocide, Bilibidon (@bilibidon) quipped: @bilibidon: Strawberry Killing Fields Forever... #manolada
An old man behind her whispered: "Don't buy strawberries." #manolada #bloodstrawberries @alepouda: 2 supermarkets in #greece are banning #bloodstrawberries of #manolada after emails send by people http://goo.gl/ax96L #boycott @myScarletCarpet: Do you like strawberries?
@MalmstromEU: Shocking news about shooting of migrant workers in Greece.
I expect full investigation by the Greek authorities/CM bbc.co.uk/news/world-eur…
"My little sister is boycotting #bloodstrawberries".
Photo tweeted by Maria Sidiropoulou
A form of modern slavery
Although the severity of the incident is unprecedented, it's not isolated.
Efforts have been made in the past to draw the attention of authorities to this form of modern slavery, such as a 2008 investigative report by journalists Dina Daskalopoulou and Makis Nodaros for which an English translation is available here.
There have been similar incidents before in the same area, with scant coverage in mainstream media, as the writer and activist collective The Multicultural Politic wrote:
Activists from Greek Communist Party a campaign in 2008 for a daily wage increase from 22 Euros to 25.
The workers and campaigners were met with a violent confrontation in which many workers were beaten suffering serious injury.
Further investigations by journalists revealed how local municipal officials were selling fake documentation to migrant workers, and police prosecutions meant that employers in the town became very hostile to “Athenian” journalists which might partly explain the limited information that has been reported about the most recent violence.
In August 2012, an Egyptian worker was dragged with a car through the streets of Nea Manolada town, but the incident didn't trigger a closer look at the working and living conditions of farm workers in the area by authorities.
One of three foremen awaiting trial for the latest shooting was the suspected perpetrator of the car dragging.
Journalist Yannis Baboulias explained the reasons for the continuing impunity:
The farmers of Manolada, praised many a times for their entrepreneurial spirit from government and media alike, have enjoyed this impunity for years.
Nodaros’ report speaks of shacks in which the workers are forced to live and pay rent for to their bosses, illegal supermarkets among them selling expired products at two and three times their price, and a shocking tolerance from the authorities who have done nothing to stop this despite the 150 plus cases on file against them.
@Cyberela: In conclusion it seems that #Greece's officials knew about the conditions & celebrated @ European forums the "red gold" innovation #Manolada
At the time of writing this article, a dedicated blog has been set up to promote the boycott call in seven languages , and cancellations for standing orders of strawberries from Nea Manolada are continuing.
The incident was storified by journalist Nikos Moumouris and by GV author Asteris Masouras, who contributed to this report, while BeatriceDeDante collected the imagery of the incident.
Japan's Cherry Blossom Tradition Tests Rookie Employees · Global Voices
Among the thousands of people that fill Japan's parks every spring to picnic under the delicate pink cherry blossoms, known as sakura, are young professionals.
They are new recruits sent by their bosses to reserve a spot for the company's outdoor feast, and are sometimes made to sit for hours well into the night guarding the location.
The blooming of the cherry blossom trees in Japan in early spring coincides with the beginning of the Japanese business year, and it is tradition to test new employees with this task.
Hanami at Yoyogi Park.
Photo by Dick Thomas Johnson (CC BY 2.0)
Twitter user Mame (‏@MameBroth) wrote about the thankless job on his account on March 20, 2013:
‏@MameBroth: I am taking place for hanami spot as a new employee.
But I have to meet a product deadline so they told me to bring a laptop computer.
I do coding while reserving the spot.
Night comes on.
Nobody has come yet.
I call the office.
I get yelled at over the phone, "What make you think we can come?
We are busy as hell!".
All alone on a chilling night.
How sad is this.
The tradition of new hires reserving a picnic spot for their companies is part of the larger annual tradition of hanami where friends and families hold feasts under the flowering trees and enjoy sake and beer.
Companies also organize hanami, and often cases, the new employees are being evaluated based on how good they conduct the hanami party.
Why is this a new employee’s job?
In online resource site All About, writer Kagezo stated that the task is a way for new recruits to prove their workplace skills:
If you are responsible for your company's hanami party, simply reserving a spot and procuring liquors are not good enough.The skill of preparing hanami is associated with management skill and neat work.
Your bosses and seniors are surreptitiously evaluating your capability through your skill of preparing the feast.
This year, the Japan Meteorological Agency announced cherry blossoms reached full bloom on March 22 in Tokyo, the second earliest since the weather agency began taking statistics in 1953.
With the early arrival of the full bloom of cherry blossoms this year, Twitter users wondered if the new employees’ first task would be affected.
The blooming period is very short, and company hanami parties are supposed to be held in April.
Twitter user Wappa (@tokyoallnight) wrote on April 1, the start of the Japanese business year:
@tokyoallnight: Oh today is the day of initiation ceremonies at companies...
Speaking of the very first task for rookie, the task used to be hanami spot keeping.
Is it still rookies' job?
We used to say that we could tell who would have leadership among those new ones by watching their hanami preparation.
Well, but here in Tokyo, cherry flowers have already fallen off.
Twitter user Yas (@yas_ukey) advised new hires to seize on alternative opportunities to prove themselves:
‏@yas_ukey: New worker’s mission, reserving a hanami spot become impossible this year.
Find some other ways to have a leg up on your fellow colleagues.
A Japanese company holds hanami party at Ueno Park,Tokyo.
Photo by Benson (CC BY-ND 2.0)
On the other hand, others were puzzled by the tradition.
Masumiyutaka (‏@masumiyutaka) tweeted:
@masumiyutaka: I have an image of cherry trees beginning to bloom in April around the time of school entrance ceremony in the old days.
But nowadays, the image of blooming cherry blossom is the latter half of March.
Blooming is getting earlier and earlier.
So the weird tradition of new employees taking place for hanami spot in April would possibly disappear?
Not everyone supports the tradition of rookie employees serving as party location placeholders.
An online article by business newspaper NIKKEI.com reported that telling junior employees to reserve hanami spots could fall under the two of six categories of power harassment specified by the Ministry of Health and Welfare – excessive demands, such as assigning work that is impossible to perform or obviously unnecessary; and intrusion upon the individual, such as intrusion into an employee's personal life.
In free posting site Hatelabo, an anonymous user was strongly opposed to the custom:
Are there still companies that force new employees to take place for company’s hanami spot?
As someone who grew up in a foreign country, I really don’t get it.
On top of the heavy social obligation after working hours, to use them for reserving a spot?
Who the hell do they think they are?
I will never ever accept it.
No way.
Another anonymous user responded to the comment:
I didn't grow up in a foreign country, I'm not a new employee and I'm not young.
But I agree with you.
It's OK if you are willing to do it but it's not OK that society forces the individual to do it.
Or of anything.
Japanese businessmen working in the park.Photo by GaijinSeb (CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)
On Twitter, user xxxxxlg (@xxxxxlg) wrote about his personal experience with the spring tradition:
@xxxxxlg: First and second year workers had a meeting for a hanami party in Ueno Park.
Apparently, we have to plan the detail of budget and schedule for the big hanami party that 100 people participated from operational headquarters.
By the way, taking spot for the hanami party kicks off the night before the day.
The thumbnail image used in this post is taken by lestaylorphoto on Flickr (CC BY-NC-SA 2.0)
Venezuela's Post-election Tension Escalates · Global Voices
The election results following the death of Hugo Chávez, in which Nicolás Maduro and Henrique Capriles Radonski measured the support of their followers, is at the heart of mounting tension.
Just as Maduro was being declared the new President of the Republic, calls for public protests and an election recount were multiplying across social networks.
In a matter of hours, photos of demonstrations, tweets in support of both candidates, and complaints about voting irregularities dominated Twitter's trending topics in Venezuela.
The journalist Inti Acevedo (@inti) commented:
Wikipedia's Suicide Mission Against Russian Censors · Global Voices
Smoking cannabis is dangerous business for people the world over.
In Russia, just writing about it online is apparently enough to run afoul of federal anti-drug police, as that nation’s Wikipedians learned last Friday, April 5, 2013.
It was then that state officials first informed Wikimedia Russia, the Wikimedia Foundation’s local chapter, that the government has placed its “Cannabis Smoking” article on its blacklist of illegal websites.
“The Free Encyclopedia”’s troubles multipled when Vladimir Pikov, spokesman for Roskomnadzor (the agency charged with managing the blacklist), went on national radio and revealed that 15 different Wikipedia articles are now among the URLs banned in Russia. “ has been on the list for a long time,” Pikov later told Interfax.ru, adding, “Why people are suddenly realizing this now, I don’t know.”
Responsibility for the confusion seems to lie with the government, however, as it turns out that officials neglected to inform Wikimedia Russia about any of its blacklisting decisions until last week.
(Pikov says Roskomnadzor was unable to reach Wikipedia’s nonvolunteer administrators.)
Only aggravating the mess, the documents ultimately transmitted to Wikimedia are full of chronological holes.
According to the actual “united registry” directory, for instance, the “Cannabis” article landed on the blacklist back in mid-December 2012.
The paperwork sent on April 5, however, reports that anti-drug police came to their decision on March 26, 2013.
As it turns out, since last year there have been at least seven redundant decisions by state regulators and police to add Wikipedia’s “Cannabis” article to the RuNet blacklist.
In a blog post published yesterday, April 8, Wikimedia Russia revealed that a total of ten Wikipedia articles (not fifteen, as Pikov told RSN radio) are technically banned in Russia as of this moment.
These encyclopedia entries relate to narcotics (cannabis smoking, LSD, etc.) and suicide (self-immolation, “suicide methods,” and so on), include both Russian and English articles, and were selected by officials from three different agencies: Roskomnadzor, FSKN (the anti-drugs police), and Rospotrebnadzor (consumer rights regulators).
Russian Wikipedia’s Twitter account announced the discovery with a nod to fellow prey of the federal blacklist: Well at last it’s finally happened: they’ve put us on the blacklist (twice?) for the article “Smoking Cannabis.”
Editor Dmitry Rozhkov writes plainly: Let them close , hell.
The reaction to blocking Wikipedia is already known. They’re blocking off themselves.
Another user named Tucha (“stormcloud”) muses :
Let them close it.
It could be funny, such a classic advertisement for one article.
This, of course, was a reference to the Streisand Effect, “the phenomenon whereby an attempt to hide or remove a piece of information has the unintended consequence of publicizing the information more widely.”
The Effect operated in force over the weekend, propelling Russian Wikipedia’s “Cannabis” article to roughly 13,000% its normal traffic, jumping from 431 views on Thursday, April 4, to over 56,000 views the next day.
In the past week, the “Cannabis” article has attracted over 125 thousand views, fewer only than the site’s entries for Odnoklassniki (a RuNet social network) and Margaret Thatcher (who died on April 8).
In a news post on ru.wikinews.org, Wikimedia Russia’s executive director, Stanislav Kozlovsky, complained that the RuNet blacklist’s vague prerogative threatens an absurdly broad spectrum of online content:
Even the name of the article, “Cannabis Smoking,” might subject it to the formula, since it makes it illegal even to mention the means of drug use.
It’s the same for suicide: the phrases “Yesenin hanged himself,” “Mayakovsky shot himself,” and “Romeo and Juliet poisoned themselves” are also excuses to block the site, since they all concern means of committing suicide.
Jimmy Wales, founder of Wikipedia, 12 July 2008, photo by Joi Ito, CC 2.0.
Earlier today, April 9, Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales responded to Ain92, a Russia-based Wikipedian, who notified Wales on his user page that “two articles of English Wikipedia is forbidden (blacklisted) by Roskomnadzor .”
Wales’ answer was unambiguously defiant:
For me, being blocked is always preferable to collaborating with censors.
It's important to understand that the fear of site-wide blocking is based in concerns that some (smaller, presumably) ISPs may lack sufficient technical resources to block individual pages, forcing them to block the entire site to comply with the law.
Believe me, if those ISPs block the entire site, while other ISPs only block specific pages, the ones which block all of Wikipedia will lose customers very very quickly.
We are not weak, we are very powerful.
Catering to the demands of weak and cowardly politicians - the kind who fear the spread of knowledge - is not the Wikipedia way.
Wales, though, will not be the one to decide how Wikipedia’s drug- and suicide-related content develops in response to the Russian authorities.
That honor lies with Wikipedia’s volunteer editors, who were responsible for the articles in the first place.
That said, all indications are that neither Russia’s officials nor her Wikipedians are likely to budge.
That means “Cannabis Smoking” and its subversive neighbors are probably on the RuNet blacklist to stay.
Saudi Arabia Threatens to Block Skype and WhatsApp · Global Voices
Saudi Arabia, an Enemy of the Internet, is threatening to block a number of popular communication tools, such as Skype and mobile messaging service WhatsApp, unless the operating companies agree to infringe on the privacy of users and monitor them.
According to Brian Whitaker, who blogs at Al-bab, the Saudi authorities:
are threatening to block popular communication services such as Skype, WhatsApp and Viber unless the operating companies agree to monitoring of messages and calls.
Al-Arabiya reports that the Saudi Communications and Information Technology Commission (CITC) has given companies until the end of this week to respond.
If the companies do not comply with the Saudi request, the commission may take action and block these services. Saudi Arabia, an Enemy of the Internet according to Reporters without Borders, threatens to block popular sites such as Skype and WhatsApp, unless it can monitor them
Whitaker adds:
The Saudi authorities are threatening to block popular communication services such as Skype, WhatsApp and Viber unless the operating companies agree to monitoring of messages and calls.
"In case they say it is impossible to monitor the applications, the commission said it will consider procedures to block them altogether in the kingdom."
The Jeddah-based Arab News says the authorities are concerned because the applications use encrypted connections:
"According to two informed sources who work at local telecommunication companies, this issue has been at the top of the agenda of discussions during meetings between heads of telecom companies and the CITC over the past 20 days.
The meetings have finally concluded with the CITC demanding that it be allowed to monitor the encrypted applications."
Predictably, the authorities justify their demand for monitoring on the grounds that it will help prevent crime and terrorism.
But, as Ahram Online points out, conservatives in the kingdom are worried about the growth of internet-based social networks which are outside their control and which "have enlarged the severely restricted scale of freedom of expression".
Whitaker reminds us:
The question now is whether the companies concerned will agree to the CITC's demands.
There was a similar issue three years ago when the CITC threatened to shut down the BlackBerry Messenger service unless it was given access to codes that would allow monitoring of messages.
The matter was later resolved, though it is not clear how.
The CITC said it was dropping the ban after Research in Motion, the Canadian company behind BlackBerry, met "part" of its regulatory requirements.
Some reports suggested the company had caved in and agreed to put a BlackBerry server in the country so that the Saudis could directly access customer data.
On Riyadh Bureau, Ahmed Al Omran reports that Saudi Arabia's grand mufti Abdulaziz Al Sheikh has described Twitter as a place where youth waste their time and a "gathering place for every clown and corrupter who post tweets that are illegitimate, false and wrong.”
Al Omran adds:
The Grand Mufti has become increasingly critical of Twitter users recently.
In January 2012 he said the social network “has become a platform for trading accusations and for promoting lies used by some just for the sake of fame.”
Then in October he called people who use the site “fools” and accused them of lacking modesty and faith.
He also offers statistics on Twitter users in Saudi Arabia saying:
Twitter has become a major platform for Saudi to exchange ideas and debate political issues in the country.
A recent survey said 51% of internet users in Saudi Arabia are active Twitter users, putting it in first place worldwide.
A Saudi official admitted last month that the government is struggling to monitor and censor the site due to the huge volume of messages posted by users inside the country.
As Saudis make their voices heard online, thanks to the wide reach of social media, Saudi authorities seem to be working even harder at muzzling their voices.
What do we do at Global Voices Catalonia? · Global Voices
Global Voices Catalonia presentation at Pompeu Fabra University on 27 February 2013.
Source: Veus del Món.
Image used with permission.
On 27 February 2013, the Global Voices Online (GV) international community of bloggers presented its Catalan edition at Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona.
Global Voices includes over 700 writers and more than 600 translators, who work to ensure that the discussions and initiatives taking place in blogs and on social networks all over the world reach a global audience.
The writers choose stories that are not widely covered by conventional media with the aim of spreading the voice of the people. Volunteer translators then provide articles in over 30 different languages, including Catalan.
GV's mission is to identify the most interesting discussions and initiatives on the web, defend freedom of expression and give citizens the opportunity to hear and be heard.
“GV is like a scanner of everything that is published in blogs and discussed on social networks such as Twitter.
Everything that exists on the Internet, that is reported, is material for GV”, said GV journalist, blogger and collaborator Joan Antoni Guerrero (@JoanAntoni70), interviewed by Veus del Món , a blog created by a group of journalism students (Paula Solanas, Glòria Ribugent and Glòria Torrent) to cover the presentation.
Global Voices collaborators at the summit held in Nairobi (Kenya) in July 2012.
From Catalonia to the world; from the world to Catalonia
The Catalan edition of GV left the beta phase towards the middle of 2012 and almost a year later it was a “bridge blog” between languages and cultures, providing the world with articles on Catalonia and reporting on what is happening in the blogosphere in Catalan.
As Violeta Camarasa (@VioletaCamarasa), editor of Global Voices Catalonia, said in an interview with VilaWeb, "Global Voices can really help explain Catalonia to the world".
At the moment, its work has already caused waves in international media such as the Al Jazeera television channel, which dedicated a programme to the debate on independence (GV is mentioned in minutes 11.33 and 28.19), and the Washington Post newspaper, which echoed an article on the Cafè amb Llet case.
In an interview with the Veus del Món blog, Daniel Bogre Udell (@dbudell), a Catalanophile from New York who set up the Catalan version of GV and is the current co-editor, gives his opinion on the information about Catalonia that reaches the United States and rest of the world:
I think it's changed a lot in the last year.
English language media such as The Guardian or the New York Times publish articles on Catalonia and people abroad are starting to recognise it.
I believe that the work done by Global Voices has played a part because we've been able to influence how GV publishes articles on Spain.
At the moment, the Catalan edition has over 20 collaborators who write and/or translate articles, which the editors then revise to ensure a minimum level of linguistic and journalistic quality: a task that is considered complementary to that of traditional media.
For this reason, the Catalan edition is establishing links with media such as the Diari Ara , where its associated blog Veus Globals is published.
Why should I collaborate with Global Voices Catalonia?
Translating or writing for GV “is not only a mean of gaining experience”, as Esteve Mata, one of the co-editors, who was also interviewed on the Veus del Món blog, said. “It is a way of getting to know other cultures, other languages, other situations”.
Translations allow us to break those language barriers and go further, paving the way so that everyone has access to firsthand information.
Other collaborators interviewed by the same blog via Twitter, shared the same way of thinking:
Cristina Simón (@cristina_simn), journalist, writer and translator at GV:
Global Voices in Catalan needs more input. It is constantly growing and I think becoming involved in it can be very enriching.
I think we have the opportunity to explain what is happening in our country from our point of view and in our language and it's great.
And I think that those of us who speak other languages have the possibility to transmit real events that are often distant to our readers.
Mireia Bel (@airem_gb), professional translator:
Translation enables communication between communities that speak different languages .
It is important to translate into Catalan because it is a good way of preserving the language and transmitting the language correctly.
It is also important to explain things about Catalonia in other languages because in that way other countries can get to know us better.
The fact that articles in Catalan are translated into other languages also gives our language more importance.
After the presentation, there was a round table chaired by the editor of Global Voices Catalonia Violeta Camarasa, and attended by the head of digital content at El Periódico de Cataluña Saül Gordillo (@saulgordillo) , expert in Internet journalism Sílvia Cobo (@silviacobo) and member of the People Witness streamer network Cristina Vaquer (@tinisima_).
The participants debated the relation between blogs, social networks and 'citizen journalism' projects and traditional journalism.
The Veus del món blog (@VeusdelMon) contains all the information on the event.
A list is provided below:
Interview with Violeta Camarasa , editor. Interview with Daniel Bogre Udell , co-editor.
The Catalanophile from New York who set up the Catalan edition of GV.
Interview with Cristina Simón , writer, translator and editor.
Interview with Esteve Mata , co-editor and translation coordinator.
Interview with Joan Antoni Guerrero , writer.
Interview with Mireia Bel , translator.
Interview with Paula Góes , Multilingual Writing coordinator at GV.
Collection of comments from GV collaborators all over the world .
Interview with Carles Singla , Journalism director of studies at Pompeu Fabra University, who introduced and moderated the GV Catalonia round table presentation.
Chat with Saül Gordillo , digital content manager at El Periódico de Catalunya and participant in the GV Catalonia round table presentation.
Chat with Cristina Vaquer , member of the People Witness streamer network and participant in the GV Catalonia round table presentation.
Chat with Sílvia Cobo , independent journalist, blogger, Internet journalism expert and participant in the GV Catalonia round table presentation.
Nine Street Kids Die in Senegal Quran School Fire · Global Voices
At least nine children died in a raging fire on the night of Sunday 3 March, 2013 in the Medina district of Dakar, Senegal.
It was reported that a fire broke out while the children were sleeping in a crowded room at an Islamic school in the capital, and at least seven of the dead are thought to be 'talibs' (Quran students).
Following the tragedy, several politicians reacted to the news, and in doing so, have highlighted just how tough the living conditions can be for talibs.
Hady Ba explains, on his blog, what being a talib entails:
In Senegal, parents would traditionally entrust the care of their children to scholars who would teach them to memorize the Quran and then, as the children grew older, theology.
During the first few years of their studies, these children would not be fed by the marabout to which they were assigned, but by the entire community.
Each of these children had a bowl and, three times a day, these students - which are know as 'talibs' (yes, the word comes from the same Arabic root as 'Taliban') - would go from door to door among the houses of the town or the village, receiving handfuls of food that they would gather in their bowls to eat ...
The tradition was meant to be educational - it was intended to form stoic men who, content with what they have, would resist hunger and be indifferent to the pleasures of this base world.
The tradition was based on a particular world-view and on social networks through which the the whole community felt responsible for the wandering children.
Over the course of the last few decades, however, the hardships faced by the talibs have started to become excessive. In its article 'La détresse des enfants talibés' , Sentinelles, a Swiss NGO, explains:
The talib survive in the daaras (Quran schools) - often unfinished, makeshift shelters, without water or electricity, where children, deprived of hygiene and basic care, crowd together to sleep, usually on the floor or sometimes on mats, each child pressed up against the next.
Many daaras thrive in this way - under the management of marabouts who are more concerned with their own profits than the talibs' welfare, the students having become a source of income for their teachers.
The talibs are at the mercy of these "masters", who may do with them what they please - violent beatings are common during a talib's religious education.
In Senegal, nearly any Muslim can become a marabout, and - in contrast to other types of schools - there is no law governing the daaras.
The marabouts are revered and enjoy very real power over the population.
In response to this tragedy, the government has given instructions on the immediate banning of the practice of begging, believing that at the heart of the problem lies the exploitation of children by organized begging. Leral.net has quoted Abdoul Mbaye, Prime Minister of Senegal, as follows:
According to Abdoul Mbaye, this "organized begging and this exploitation of children by making them live in risk and in terrible conditions must stop."
According to him, "it is because Senegalese nationals are not gullible that some marabouts go in the neighboring countries of Gambia, Guinea Bissau and Mali.
The President has given clear instructions on this issue: such practices must stop.
Corrupt marabouts will be sought out and punished ...
However, as the columnist Dom Bochel Guégan has pointed out, this is not the first time that the Senegalese government has taken such measures.
She would like to believe that the prohibition on begging by children will be effective, however :
It is tempting for some parents to entrust their children in the hope that this way, they will not starve.
Indeed, this may sometimes be the only possible solution... Not to mention all the children who have come from abroad - from Guinea or elsewhere - that would need to be returned to their families once they are found...
Already in 2010, Abdoulaye Wade, then President of the Republic, had announced an end to talibé begging. He had been driven by pressure from international donors who had set this as a precondition to further financial aid.
The promise did not last long.
How long?
We saw the streets kids disappear for two or three weeks and then they came back, all of them, and things once again became as they had been before.
These are not the only difficulties facing the government. As Hady Ba and Dom Bochel Guégan have pointed out, there was also swift backlash from religious leaders.
They cite two instances of such opposition:
Quran teachers from Touba, Darou Moukhty and Diourbel have been reported as stating:
"Not a single daara (ed's note: school in wolof) will be closed ... We reject the government's diktat ...
The government is out to settle scores ...
While the talibé is a small beggar, the government is a bigger beggar ...
We are ready to bring together 6,666 daaras to pray for its destruction ... ".
Some commentators have suggested that the government might introduce religious instruction into the general school curriculum.
Serigne Mansour Sy Djamil , a member of parliament and a religious leader, has argued that the government is responsible for the Medina fire.
He has accused the government of abandoning Quran schools, leaving them to face poverty so that it can fund its republican education agenda.
Photograph of a child in a Senegal street taken Dom Bochel Guégan. (reproduced with her permission)
One netizen has reacted as follows on Facebook:
Still this morning , I bumped into children, barefoot, wearing nothing but an oversized T-shirt - the prohibition is clearly not being respected.
The Prime Minister said yesterday that the necessary laws were already in place (true) and that these need only to be applied.
Yako fokon which means let's hope.
Spanish Blogger Goes After Anti-Catalan Prejudice in Viral Video · Global Voices
In her video, titled "¡A mí me hablas en español!" or "Speak to me in Spanish!", she deconstructed what she called "false myths" about the Catalan people:
She began by asserting:
Blood on the Road to Pakistan's Elections · Global Voices
A suicide bombing, a grenade attack and a remote-controlled explosion - all in one day.
Nineteen people were killed in three separate incidents targeting candidates of three different political parties.
April 16, 2013 was a bloody day for Pakistan's election campaigners.
Samad Khurram (@SamadK), an active Twitter user from Pakistan said:
@SamadK: Ghulam Bilour (ANP), Sanaullah Zehri (PML-N) and Zulfiqar Afghani (PPP) attacked today.
Can we have elections in this environment?
A suicide bomber struck the secular and largely Pashtun Awami National Party's (ANP) election rally in northwestern Peshawar, killing 15 people.
Another 50 were injured, including the party's stalwart Ghulam Ahmed Bilour.
The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) claimed responsibility for the bombing, which is the sixth attack on the secular party's leaders and candidates in the last month.
Earlier this month, Taliban militants warned voters from staying away from polls and vowed to step up attacks against secular politicians.
Violence in South Waziristan: Election office of independent candidate Abdul Khaliq blown up by militants.
Image courtesy Pak Votes (11/4/2013) The ANP is one of the few political parties to have openly condemned the Taliban in Pakistan.
Marvi Sirmed (@MarviSirmed), who is a prominent social activist, tweeted:
@MarviSirmed: Salute to #ANP for still standing up to terrorist of #TTP and all their supporters wherever they are #Media #politicalParties #establishment."
Bilour's brother, another party leader was killed in a suicide bombing late last year.
Hoor F. Khan (@HooviK), a 23-year-old supporter of the political party Pakistan Tehrik-e- Insaaf (PTI) tweeted:
@HooviK: How much more pain will the #Bilours endure? vote nai dena, na dou, jan tho na lo zalmo #ANP #PTI #PPP #PMLN
The ANP has now issued instructions for its candidates to restrict their electioneering and avoid "holding processions and public gatherings in the open."
This is a screenshot from Pakvotesmap.pk highlighting incidents of elections-related violence.
Used with permission of Pak Votes
In the same city, a grenade was thrown at a Pakistan People's Party Parliamentarian (PPPP) candidate Zulfiqar Afghani's house, luckily no one was injured.
Pak Votes, a citizen journalism initiative documenting and mapping election related violence on a Ushahidi platform tweeted:
@Pak Votes: Hand-grenade attack on Peshawar NA-1 PPP candidate Zulfiqar Afghani.
No one harmed in the attack #PakVotes
Earlier in the day, Pakistan Muslim League (N) candidate Sanaullah Zehri's convoy was bombed by remote control, killing four in southwestern Khuzdar city, Balochistan province.
Zehri escaped unhurt but his son, nephew and brother died in the attack.
A separatist group the Baloch Liberation Army (BLA) claimed responsibility for the bombing.
Commenting on the attacks, Political analyst Adnan Rasool (@adnanrasool) stated:
@adnanrasool: First it was Sanaullah Zehri who lost family .. then it was Ghula Bilour who narrowly escaped an attack.. we need to be united against terror.
These attacks are a rather grim premonition of the elections which are still three weeks away.
They also put the nature of these elections in question, with many citing that in such circumstances, free and fair elections seem virtually impossible.
Pakistani journalist and columnist Huma Yusuf (@HumaYusuf) tweets:
@HumaYusuf: For those who say militancy is a fringe problem in #Pakistan; is it still fringe if it skews election results? #PakVotes #ANP #Peshawar
Pakistan's elections, the first democratic transition of power in the political history of the country, are scheduled for May 11, 2013.
Catalan Wikipedia Reaches 400,000 Article Milestone · Global Voices
The Catalan edition of Wikipedia Viquipèdia, a fundamental support to a language and culture historically discriminated against because it belongs to a stateless nation, has registered a record number of active users, with its article count reaching 400,000.
Viquipèdia contains half as many articles as the Spanish Wikipedia, even though 420 million people speak Spanish in the world, and there are under 10 million Catalan speakers.
At a time when Catalonia is involved in a debate about becoming independent from Spain, Viquipèdia's role in raising global awareness about the region and its people has increased massively.
This is one of the main motivations that compels 1600 active Catalan Wikipedists to edit.
Viquipèdia's first article was the first non-English article to go live on Wikipedia. It was published only two months after the original version of the Wikipedia in English went live.
Out of the free encyclopedia's 285 language editions, Catalan Wikipedia now ranks at number 15 in terms of article count.
It occupies first place in an index compiled by the Wikimedia Foundation, which measures the quality of the thousand most important articles.
On the evening of 12 April 2013, the Viquipèdia article counter reached 400,000 .
Everyone had been preparing to celebrate the milestone for a while, and it finally arrived with article Heli-4 .
This is how David Parreño (@dapamont), 17 year-old active Wikipedist and Wikimediacat (@Wikimediacat) communications coordinator, announced it :
@dapamont: URGENT _BAR_ Notice: Wikipedia in Catalan reaches 400,000 articles and registers a record number of active users http://ves.cat/dJrG #Wikipedia.
Tool for Defending Catalan Culture
The Catalan version of Wikipedia is unique, because it has become central to the activism around the language.
According to a study by Amical Viquipèdia (@Wikimediacat), the association that promotes the free encyclopedia among the Catalan community, this is one of the main motivations that compel Catalan Wikipedists to edit.
Àlex Hinojo (@Kippelboy), project manager at Wikimediacat and creator of@CatalanMuseums, says :
Many people say they edit because it's fun, they can provide more information about a topic...and they are building a country.
Catalan-speaking civil society always maintains a certain activism in favour of its language, just as it does with other topics.
WikiMarathon at Drassanes Reials (Barcelona), on Wikipedia's 12th anniversary.
March 2013.
Photo by @Kippelboy.
Tension with the Spanish Version
A study by Mark Graham (@geoplace), researcher at Oxford University, based on figures obtained by combining geolocated data from WikiLocation and Georeferenzierung, shows that 35,000 articles have been created in Spanish territory with coordinates in Catalan, and nineteen thousand in Spanish.
According to Graham, “nowhere else in the world enjoys such a high visibility for a language that is relatively little spoken.”
Viquipèdia is viewed by Catalan-speaking users as a tool for defending their culture, which can occasionally create friction with the Spanish edition due to the issue of identity.
Wikipedists not only translate; they often bring their own cultural perspective, which can clash with other cultural perspectives.
Despite the desire to understand, conflicts are not always easily resolved.
A news item that appeared in the digital newspaper Vilaweb in December 2012, told how blogger Joan Inglada (@jinglada) translated the entry about writer Anna Rosselló into Spanish, but another Wikipedist changed ‘Catalan writer’ to ‘Spanish writer in Catalan language’, even against Rosselló's will.
In the end, Inglada requested the article be removed.
Because of this, Inglada investigated other articles, such as the one about Valencian author and reference in Catalan culture, Joan Fuster, and found identical corrections, as detailed in an entry in his blog .
M. Graham's map showing largest languages by country.
The Fight for their own Chapter
For years, Catalan Wikipedists have been negotiating with the Wikimedia Foundation, the international Foundation that promotes Wikipedia and its sister projects, to obtain official recognition for the Catalan version, since the organisational structure of the free encyclopaedia is based on border criteria and Catalonia is a stateless nation.
Hinojo says :
There are different local associations around the world called "chapters".
These associations are based on border boundaries and we are based on topical interests (Catalan culture), not borders.
Since we are a stateless nation, we suggested that the Wikimedia Foundation give us "official recognition" as a "chapter" and we've been in negotiation for over 4 years.
We still don't have official approval.
As a temporary solution to this situation, the Amical Viquipèdia (@WikimediaCat) was created in 2008 to pave the way.
This association, which currently has around 60 members, promotes the online encyclopaedia in Catalan through activities such as WikiMarathons, competitions in schools, and collaborations with institutions such as universities, museums and libraries.
China's Anti-Japanese TV War Dramas Knocked for Vulgarity · Global Voices
The Chinese entertainment industry's incessant production of anti-Japanese TV dramas, under the scrutiny of netizens for a while now, has hit a nerve with China's state-controlled media after two photographs from a war drama showing a nude girl saluting a group of Chinese soldiers leaked online.
As the territorial dispute between China and Japan over islands in the East China sea has intensified over the last three years, so have the number of television dramas about the Frist and Second Sino-Japanese War, which led to the death of millions of Chinese.
Authorities in the State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television have been delighted to approve these patriotic story plots.
But the nudity depicted in the two photographs which leaked on popular Chinese microblogging site Sina Weibo seemed too much for even state-controlled media outlets, including the China Central Television and the People Daily, which criticized the country's relentless anti-Japanese TV dramas for being too vulgar.
A Sina Weibo user leaked two photos taken from a Sino-Japanese War drama in which a nude girl is saluting to a group of Chinese soldiers.
The photos, which have circulated widely online, were picked up by provincial media outlets on April 9, 2011 and national news outlets about two days later.
Chinese airwaves have been inundated with anti-Japanese war dramas.
According to a local news report, 70 of the 200 primetime dramas on major TV networks in 2012 were about the Sino-Japanese War.
Sources from Hengdian Movie and Television City in Zhejiang province said that among its 300,000 contracted actors, 60 percent have performed the role of Japanese soldiers.
Annually, there are about 48 drama production crews working on anti-Japanese invasion dramas.
An actor playing a Japanese soldier can die up to eight times a day.
A drama takes an average of four months to complete, which means more than one billion Japanese soldiers have been 'killed' in Hengdian alone.
In response to the leaked photos, Sina Weibo's headline news microblog composed a collection of screen captures of other vulgar moments from war dramas.
The set of images was republished more than 30,000 in less than 24 hours and attracted thousands of comments.
Below is the translated collection:
A group of armed Japanese soldiers running away from a woman with an arrow aimed at them.
All the weapons are too weak — let me tear the Japanese soldier apart.
His Arms are so strong to tear the Japanese soldier into two pieces so easily.
Our soldiers have turned into armed secret agents with all-terrain vehicles.
How can this be about Sino-Japanese war?
Look at this girl.
Even though she is surrounded by Japanese soldiers, with her Tai Chi Chuan, touch of death and flying steps, she kills all the gun-armed Japanese soldiers with bare hands.
This drama has combined the anti-Japanese invasion theme with a love story, are you genuinely fighting against the Japanese?
This is the best one.
An anti-Japanese "hero" throws a bomb to the sky and takes down a Japanese fighter plane!!!
This is such a bluff!
Jump off the cliff to catch the Japanese soldiers who are driving around and kill them… You would be damn lucky if you did not die, can anyone still expect you to kill Japanese soldiers?
I have heard that this gun is called AK47…
Netizens on Weibo disparaged the films, accusing them of distorting the invasion's actual history.
In reaction to the still of the nude girl, "City Grass 2013″ (＠城草 2013) wrote :
So shocked to hear that there is a nude heroine saluting to a group of Chinese soldiers in the anti-Japanese invasion drama.
In exchange for a lot of viewers, there is no baseline?!
In recent years, the anti-Japanese invasion dramas have a lot of strange ideas, some even turn prostitutes into anti-Japanese heroines.
When the actresses are in the battlefield, they wear make-up and try to be sexually attractive.
It has twisted the history.
How can we let our kids see this?
User "Forest big wood" (＠林林林林大木) found the adult-television style hilarious:
The fact that they can develop adult-TV style out of anti-Japanese invasion theme has demonstrated our party's progressive style, it progresses with our times.
I clapped my hands all day…
Script writer Bei Cun (@北村) was angry about the plot line :
Can't they produce something more serious?
The Sino-Japanese War is a very solemn historic episode and it is a trauma for Chinese people.
Such plots not only pollute the TV screen, but also disgrace our heroes by burying their blood and tears.
User "Observe the Red Cross - 365″ (@看听-红十-365) wondered who is responsible for the situation:
The TV is flooded with anti-Japanese invasion dramas that distort history.
They sell fake patriotism as entertainment to make a profit.
This is so disgusting…. but when you have a second thought, who did the wrong deed…
Most Chinese people understand that propaganda authorities have encouraged the production of anti-Japanese drama.
That's why user "ThreeWatches" called criticism from state-owned CCTV and People's Daily hypocritical :
It is true that the anti-Japanese invasion dramas have lost their baseline but when CCTV and People's Daily criticized them as "nonsense and obscurant", it sounds strange as if rapists are accusing others for harassing women.
"Water Rita" (@水水Rita-天然呆) made fun of the nationalistic conspiracy language and said :
I suspect the directors are the overseas enemy forces and they intentionally produce such awful anti-Japanese invasion dramas.
Despite Bans, China's Uyghurs Wear their Identity with Pride · Global Voices
Every year ethnic minorities clad in their traditional clothes are showcased during the national broadcast of the National People's Congress meetings and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, creating a facade of celebrated diversity in China.
However, that is far from the truth. This was recently demonstrated in Urumqi city within northwestern China in the Muslim majority region Xinjiang, where ethnic Uyghurs students are banned and punished for sporting their culture in some schools and some public institutions.
Viral image
On March 5, 2013 a photo went viral showing a group of Uyghur students from Xinjiang Experimental School standing in the playground, with the caption: "these students are being punished for wearing the Taqiyah ".
The viral photo circulated online on March 5.
Photo from Uighurbiz.net.
The next day, the Education Bureau issued a statement explaining that the students had not been punished and that the teachers were just persuading a dozen students to take off their Taqiyah during a sports class.
The Xinjiang police went on to claim that the incident was a plot by outside forces.
Sign on Urumqi city's Kashgar Library front door: Readers wearing the hijab or the veil are prohibited from entering the building.
Photo from uighurbiz.net
However, images uploaded by netizens show that this is not an isolated incident.
Some schools and libraries in Urumqi city have explicit bans prohibiting students wearing the Taqiyah and the veil from entering their premises.
To stand up for their cultural rights, some Uyghur youths uploaded photos of themselves wearing ethnic clothing.
For example Zuo Kara (@佐克拉) uploaded this profile picture on March 6 and explained:
Wearing Taqiyah is every Uyghur's dream because it represents our ethnicity and symbolizes our culture.
When I see high school and middle school boys and girls wear Taqiyah to school, I feel proud.
They look more handsome and pretty in their Taqiyah.
Here I wear my Taqiyah, not to imitate others.
I just want to show respect for our ethnic culture and character.
I love Taqiyah and I speak for Uyghur and Xinjiang.
Many show their support in the comment thread:
Rainer Su: I am Han Chinese but I support you.
What the Kingdom (Chinese government) does to you is similar to what had been done to us by the Mongolian Yuan Dynasty and what the Manju Qing Dynasty did to the Han People.
It is violence against humanity.
Liang Ji 98: You are beautiful, inside out.
What you have said is so right.
The civilization of Uyghur is so rich.
Don't copy Han Chinese and give up your culture.
Gao Dunying Art Festival: Good looking!
Support!
This is your custom clothing and culture.
According to the Constitution, every ethnic groups should enjoy their freedom to maintain and reform their own culture and tradition.
No individual or organization can intervene into people's culture.
Uighurbiz.net published several reports and commentaries on the incident.
Anostaf quoted Ilham Tohti's comment on March 7:
Uyghur scholar Ilham Tohti who advocated for Uyghur's right said: "this is not a single incident.
The restriction on Uyghur tradition, habit and clothing will erode Uyghur nationality and cultural identity.
The incident reminds us again that the most urgent issue for Uyghur is to protect our ethnic culture and identity.
Ilham Tohti also stressed: "We can tolerate bodily pain and poverty.
But we can't be deprived of our dignity.
We should not tolerate our basic human right being stepped upon like this.
Every member of our ethnic group should protect our rights.
The Xinjiang government have violated China's own laws, regulations and constitution."
On March 16 the website ran another commentary criticizing the Xinjiang authorities lack of culture respect in handling the Taqiyah incident:
Xinjiang authorities once again use "outside forces" to explain away the Taqiyah incident.
Because of this, Uyghur people have to stop discussing this or else they would be labelled "separatists".
However, the conflict will not end with the labeling of "rumor" and "outside forces".
For a long time, Xinjiang authorities have been showing little respect of Uyghur culture and the problem is getting more and more serious.
Uyghur people are unhappy.
For some background on Uyghurs, China's Muslim minority read this.
Internet Freedom Camp in Lima, Peru · Global Voices
Are you in Lima? Would you like to do something to preserve the Internet?
Sign up for the 2013 Internet Freedom Camp: two days of free culture and activism in Lima .
On May 4 and 5, 2013, activists, designers, linux users, audio-visual artists, lawyers and journalists will come together for a 'Radical collaborate communication action in defense of the internet' .
You can also follow the event through the hashtag #yaratpp.
Chinese Web Floods White House with Petitions · Global Voices
Recently, an unsolved case of poisoning of a 19-year college student in 1994 resurfaced in the Chinese social media sphere.
It not only grabbed the wide attention of Chinese netizens, but also triggered a wave of petitions to the White House.
Zhu Ling, a promising sophomore at the most prestigious university in China then, was diagnosed as having been intentionally poisoned by thallium, a highly toxic chemical used in insect poisons.
She remains mostly bed-bound now and is taken care of by her old parents.
Zhu’s roommate, Sun Wei, was the major suspect at the time and was the only one who was questioned by the police but was soon cleared.
The hearsay circulated around has been that Sun's political-related family allowed her to escape justice.
Obama is photoshopped into Bao Zheng, an ancient Chinese figure symbolizing justice.
Photo from Weibo User @Jianmingvip
Disappointed by a lack of judicial independence in China, netizens turned to the White House.
On May 3, 2013, a Chinese-American living in Florida submitted an online petition, which has drawn more than 145,000 signatures so far, on the White House’s “We the People” platform.
Sun is believed to be residing in the United States and thus the Chinese called on the Obama administration to deport the suspect.
After the petition was circulated on Sina Weibo and other online forums, the Chinese netizens crammed the White House’ petition website in the following days with a variety of petitions such as: to nail down the official taste of bean curd stew (a kind of Chinese tofu), to improve Sina staff ‘s meal subsidies, and to cancel the university admission exams .
Some petitions were written in poor English while others were written simply in Chinese.
Although the current signatures regarding deporting Zhu Ling have surpassed the threshold of 100,000, the petitions haven't received any official response yet.
Many are crystal clear that the petitions will not necessarily lead to any practical result, including Zhu Ling’s parents, who expressed their preference to solve the case through regular domestic channels instead of resorting to the United States.
However, the enthusiasm for petitioning White House reflects the shortage of a leveraging voice and the venting of resentment for Chinese back home.
In fact, Sina Weibo made an attempt to censor the name of Zhu Ling at the very beginning, but only found that it was too late to block the issue.
Upon seeing a call for justice turned into a petition drama, many netizens blame the dereliction of duty of the Chinese government.
Prominent writer Li Chengpeng (@李承鹏) laughed at the local petition system ,
The inability of Chinese judiciary authorities to solve an attempted poisoning murder at home 19 years ago, forcing the Chinese to resort to the website of the United States, elaborates two points: one is that we are not turning blind to the justice but are looking for it elsewhere; the other point is that justice is boundless, no matter whether it exists in China or in the United States.
These years Obama has been jokingly referred to as the head of the China's petition office.
I am not sure whether he is proud of that, but it is embarrassing for the Chinese.
To build up an image of a great country is to build up a image to pursue justice.
Journalist Xiang Xianjun (@@项仙君) believed that the incident would impose some pressure on the new leaders:
Chinese netizens’ petitioning the White House is a warning to the newly elected government: faced with the serious loss of public credibility, the government must change the ruling style and keep up with the age of the Internet.
The popularity of We the People illustrates the success of soft power.
In a country that boasts the power of the people at an early age, why does it still bother to block the people's voice instead of letting it go?
Some netizens even make fun of Obama and photoshopped his image as Bao Zheng, a renowned justice official during the Song dynasty.
Microblogger, "Shinning Sun" (@朗朗的阳光) commented on Obama-Bao-Zheng: A netizen's Weibo post was even carried on Twitter:
President Obama must be very busy now due to various petitions and various parodies...
Hah, Bao Zheng is in the White House, who is able to distinguish the good from the bad due to his impartiality.
But some netizens believe that the wave of petitions is meant to shift the attention onto Zhuling's case.
For example "Tse Xiaowei" (@TseWave觉悟X) said:
I am very suspicious that the petitions on the American White House website are done by "web navy" .
And I wonder if their intention is to cover up the important petition with meaningless ones.
An independent journalist, Sang Bo, observed how a criminal case was turning into a public drama step by step ：
From "judicial independence" to "speech freedom", from "national justice" to "democratic politics", a group of people are making use of Zhuling's case to make their argument.
Although I agree on their conclusion and the problems surfacing from the case, I do not agree with their mathematic equation.
Giants, Hackers, Trolls: Where Mythology and Online Activism Meet · Global Voices
Netizens have come to know a "troll" as "someone who posts a deliberately provocative message" to fuel an argument online.
That these inflammatory net users were labeled as "trolls" was no accident.
The original meaning of a troll is found in Scandinavian mythology, in which trolls are "creatures bent on mischief and wickedness."
In fact, the online world has much more in common with the mythological world than you might expect.
Many of the roles that have emerged in the Internet age are very similar to the structure used in traditional tales to impart some truth to listeners.
For instance, Loki, in Scandinavian folklore, is a trickster, a character set on breaking rules for ultimately positive effects.
In the online world, a trickster is a whistleblower, the unconventional agent who will alert the rest of the world in order to trigger social change, such as former United States army soldier Bradley Manning, who is accused of passing on classified information to WikiLeaks.
In the same vein, blacksmiths and dwarves take material in its raw form and build objects that allow the gods to fight against their enemies.
They give the raw material a shape that is useful and understandable, similar to what professional and citizen journalists do with information that is made available online by WikiLeaks.
And in Norse mythology, when Thor and the other gods fail to launch Baldr's funeral ship so that he may be resurrected in the other world, they call upon a giantess of supernatural power to propel the ship forward.
In the online world, organizations of "giant" power such as Anonymous throw their weight behind information or causes to increase their awareness.
Whistleblowers and tricksters
Illustration of Alfred Smedberg's "The boy who never was afraid", John Bauer, 1912.
Public domain
A trickster often times effects positive change through scheming and thievery, despite perhaps having less-than-pure intentions.
Bradley Manning himself noted this when he admitted during testimony that he took classified government information about the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, according to a transcript of his statements:
I created copies of the CIDNE-I and CIDNE-A SigAct tables as part of the process of backing up information.
At the time I did so, I did not intend to use this information for any purpose other than for back up.
However, I later decided to release this information publicly.
At that time, I believe and still believe that these tables are two of the most significant documents of our time.
His role as whistleblower (or, as the french say, "alert-launcher") is characterized by his aim - he again testified - to trigger national debate on the role of the US military and on US foreign policy.
His actions helped to re-establish a line of communication between the government, which was holding back a certain truth, and the population, which had been deprived of it.
While his decision might be justified from a purely humanist standpoint, it nevertheless is considered a crime.
Manning found himself being challenged, rejected, or even ignored by the mass media.
WikiLeaks and blacksmiths
Manning then gave the stolen information to WikiLeaks, who worked and shaped the data in a way not dissimilar to the blacksmiths of mythology.
Figures such Julian Assange and Birgitta Jónsdóttir, a member of the Icelandic parliament, processed and analyzed what Manning had given them.
The work was journalistic, identifying the context, the players, and the political implications to ensure the information's full impact.
Julian Assange described the role:
Quantum mechanics and its modern evolution left me with a theory of change and how to properly understand how one thing causes another.
In other words, so long as the key facts are not actively identified, they remain uncertain and elusive.
WikiLeaks is not the only entity to assume the role of a blacksmith.
Citizen journalists also play a part in forging information into an understandable form.
The extensive research and dissemination efforts carried out most notably by Heather Mash and Jemila Hanan related to the living conditions of Myanmar's persecuted Muslim minority, the Rohingya community, are an important example of this.
This journalistic work is more than just a mediating role, as Hanan explained in a February 2013 post on her blog:
There is no precedent for using social media to stop a genocide - this is uncharted territory.
We need to use social media to create and be the media, us, the people.
Our objectives are to:
1. disseminate information;
2. make connections;
3. encourage people to act.
Anonymous and giants
But Manning's information and WikiLeaks' analysis would have been pointless without an audience.
It was not enough to simply unearth and to shape the information - something needed to intervene so that information was actually read.
Hacktivist group Anonymous stepped into this role, using its might to propel the information foward, as Annie Machon, a former MI5 officer, explained in an op-ed for RT:
If you can do it over cyberspace, you get global awareness of what you’re doing, and the message you’re trying to put out.
And this is precisely what Anonymous has achieved, with this publicized assault against certain Israeli websites.
Let’s not call them attacks: they are distributed denial of service attempts against certain countries and certain websites.
So what we’re seeing here is a sort of automated mass influx into certain websites that cause them to crash.
While Anonymous relies on data released and shaped by citizen journalists to carry out their actions, their role is not to work the information as a blacksmith but to infuse the information with circulatory force using their extraordinary strength, like the mythological giant.
Twitter, for example, is rich with posts concerning their recent operations such as: #OpIsrael, #OpKashmir, #OpRohingya (which attracted public attention to available information concerning the genocide of this minority), #ReformCFAA (which is part of a protest movement against the Computer Fraud and Abuses Act), or #OpGabon against organ trafficking.
Japan's Next Election Campaign will be Tweeted, Emailed and Blogged · Global Voices
Japan has approved a bill that will allow political candidates to tweet and blog and run online advertisements during their election campaigns
Up until last week, Japanese electoral candidates had to cautiously navigate their Facebook pages, Twitter accounts and blogs to avoid breaking the country's strict election laws which banned online political activity.
The revised election law passed by both houses of Japan's legislature on April 19, 2013 will allow political candidates to use social media and other online platforms to voice their opinions and reach their voters.
The bill's impact could be soon as early as July, during the election for the House of Councilors.
Young activists and change-makers had been working behind the scenes to revise Japan's election law.
Kensuke Harada, one of the founders of the One Voice Campaign that advocated for online election campaigning wrote in a Facebook post:
Finally the ban on online election campaigning is lifted!
We've been working on this issue as One Voice Campaign since last April .
This is the issue that our elders have been working on for years.
But April last year, nobody was talking about it, not even the politicians, or the public.
But I still wanted change.
I thought it would be definitely fun if each one of us worked to make a difference in the law.
With that passion, various people came together to the One Voice crew, and shaped how we are today.
I am grateful to the people who are not members but helped us a lot too.
I don't know how much impact we had in passing the bill but I can say it wasn't zero.
With voices from each one of us, politics can change!
You can bring change!
Image of Japanese Diet: Photo by flickr userBy Dick Thomas Johnson under Creative Commons License BY-2.0-Deed
The change is expected to recapture Japan's youth vote, by offering young people, who have turned away from old media like newspapers, an option to be politically informed online.
Only 37.89 percent of voters in their 20s exercised the right to vote during the general election held in December 2012, which made overall voting rates hit a post-war record low of 59.3 percent.
But online campaign will not be completely free, there are rules and restrictions for both candidates and voters.
One concern is identity fraud; falsifying identity and posting damaging messages can lead to imprisonment of up to two years or a fine of up to roughly 3,000 US Dollars.
Internet service providers (ISP) have the authority to delete malicious comments, if users fail to provide acceptable reasons within two days of being notified。
GMO GlobalSign, an Internet security certification company, announced that they would provide verification services for political parties online.
The Liberal Democratic Party of Japan also announced their plan to extend the use of Extended Validation Certificates on websites of individual politicians.
They embraced the popular Verisign certification on their official website in 2011.
Music blogger and Twitter user Yamada (@wms) worries that pseudonyms, common in the citizen media sphere, might get users in trouble:
@wms: According to some sources, there are chances of online users getting arrested by posting political comments with pseudonyms Even though social media is now fully acceptable for online campaigns, I think it can be dangerous to post political comments if you don't use an account with your real name.
Another concern is the use of online advertisement.
Muto Nobuki, a Twitter user who works in the news and advertising industry tweets:
@mutonobuki: Now that there's a new market online, political parties feel anxious without placing online ads, it is likely they will pour money on the Internet.
But they have a limited budget, so certain media will lose advertising revenue.
Kalaiyo, a supporter of the Liberal Democratic Party, which is popular among Japan's conservative voters, worries that the revised law allows political parties to buy as many online ads as they want, but leaves out measures for independent candidates:
@kalaiyo: Japan's politick is based on a party system.
So it's common that independent candidates that do not belong to any party have disadvantages.
However it's kind of strange that bans independents from placing online ads.
Ryosuke Nishida, a researcher and professor on social entrepreneurship and public policy writes on his blog :
I think permitting online campaigns is a good starting point.
Citizens pay more attention to politics during election campaigns.
Using Information Technology, politicians will have better understanding of IT in the mid to long term while learning to adapt themselves to latest technologies: this will potentially lead to e-government and communication and broadcasting.
Another Twitter user writes about the irony of the new law being passed while legislators have been unable to solve the unconstitutional state of Japan's election process due to vote disparity:
@gankuma_: Let me think out loud - the online campaign bill was passed quickly while those who sit in the legislatures seem to have lesser motivation to resolve the issue of our unconstitutional elections.
Thumbnail photo by flickr user 7_70 under Creative Commons License BY-NC-ND 2.0
Russian Conspiracy Theories About Boston Bombings Abound · Global Voices
Conspiracy theories flourish in times of confusion and uncertainty.
Claims that the April 15 Boston Marathon bombings were part of some sort of US government-led false flag operation were circulating on the English-speaking internet before the dust had literally settled, particularly on conspiracy forums and social media groups like the Citizens Action Network.
The news that the two bombing suspects were ethnic Chechens turned what had been a passing interest for the RuNet into the number one topic of conversation .
Because the RuNet, just like the Internet at large, has always had a penchant for conspiracy theories, the events in Boston provided ample fodder for some its more paranoid denizens.
For example, the pro-regime nationalist LiveJournal community vvv-ig was quick to place the blame on the American intelligence services, running an extremely graphic post from the blogger frallik , outlining how the bombings had in fact been faked using actors.
The post, mainly using materials and memes sourced from western sites, alleged, among other things, that a man who was in the epicenter of the explosion and lost both of his legs was in fact an Iraq war veteran and previous amputee named Nick Vogt.
Despite the fact that the vvv-ig commonly deals in anti-American conspiracies, the allegation that the bombings had been faked proved too bizarre for some contributors.
Blogger proobman published a rebuttal in the same community, pointing out that the man who lost his legs was in fact named Jeff Bauman, who has a Facebook page and a fund set up to aid his recovery.
Interestingly, proobman's issues with accusations of "staging" appears partially due their similarity to ones leveled at the Russian security services: that they were behind the bombings of several apartment buildings in 1999 as a pretext for the Second Chechen War. proobman quipped: Bush blew up the Twin Towers, Putin blew up Buinaksk and Volgodonsk.
If the situation required it, he could be liquidated at any moment, concealing all evidence, and no one would be surprised.
He has the blood of tens of thousands of Chechens on his hands and the mujaheddin are constantly hunting him.
Chechen blogger Zulikhan , whose views on the Boston bombing are discussed in detail here , saw the hands of both the Russian and American security services at work in the bombings.
Putin and Obama, at the initiative of the Russians, have come to an agreement about coordinating efforts in combating international terrorism.
I think that the Russian special services are visible behind the events in Boston.
Based on the “who profits” principle.
Putin profits — so that the States let Russia do what it wants in the North Caucasus under the guise of fighting terrorism.
Netizens have not confined themselves to speculation and counterfactuals.
Some have set up an active defense of Tsarnaev.
An April 21 petition on Avaaz.org entitled "Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is innocent" gained over 5,500 signatures in four days.
Ethnic Chechens actively distributed links [ru[ to the petition on social media.
A rolling tally at the side of the page showed the names and locations of the signatories, many of whom were located in Russia and many of whom had Chechen names.
According to the author of the page, when enough signatures are collected the letter will be delivered to Barack Obama.
List of recent signatures to an online petition proclaiming Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's innocence.
"Lom-Ali" and "Khamzat" are Chechen names.
Screenshot. April 25, 2013
Chechnya and her people have suffered greatly throughout this century and the last.
It seems in this case they are reluctant to suffer yet another indignity - that of having their people's name tied to a terrorist act half way around the world.
Someone is to blame no doubt, but few in Chechenya want to believe it is the two young men whose family left their war-town country years ago.
Woman Rescued from Bangladesh Factory Rubble After 17 Days · Global Voices
The same day that the death toll of a nine-story factory collapse in Savar in the outskirts of Bangladesh's capital city of Dhaka rose to 1,055, now the deadliest building collapse since the 9/11 terrorist attacks, a female worker named Reshma Begum was found alive after being trapped in the rubble for 17 days.
Begum worked on the building's second floor as a sewing operator.
As the building collapsed, the 24-year-old was trapped in a mosque inside the basement and survived 416 hours there by breathing through a pipe and scavenging for biscuits in the rucksacks of dead colleagues.
In the first few days after the structure caved in on April 24,2013, 2,428 people were rescued from the collapsed building.
Hope that others survivors will be found among the rubble is fading fast.
Bangladeshi rescuers retrieve garment worker Reshma from the rubble of a collapsed building in Savar after 17 days.
Image by Rehman Asad.
Copyright Demotix (10/5/2013).
Begum told a news agency:
I survived mainly by drinking water.
I was trapped immediately after the building collapse.
I quickly went to the prayer room for refuge.
The rescuers dropped water inside in different times.
I managed to collect two bottles and survived on them all these days.
Begum's miraculous survival has caused a stir among many.
Hearing the good news, blogger Ashraf Shishir (@ashrafshishir) wrote:
@shahanasiddiqui: Holding back tears as I read through Reshma's miraculous save!
Times of joy, times of pride #Bangladesh #savar.
Army and rescuers look through the pocket point in the rubble of Rana Plaza where they found Reshma located alive under the rubble.
Copyright Demotix (10/5/2013)
Baroness Sayeeda Hussain Warsi (@SayeedaWarsi), senior minister of state for foreign and commonwealth affairs of UK, responded after hearing the news of Reshma's rescue:
@SayeedaWarsi: Extraordinary & uplifting scenes of a young women rescued 17 days after #Savar building collapse.
A ray of hope in the midst of tragedy.
Asif Touhid, a marketing professional, wrote on Facebook:
Reshma ...
Dear sister, you audacity to stay alive gave me inspiration and restored my faith on my people.
Journalist Kamrul Hasan (@_Kamrul_Hasan_) thanked all the rescuers who worked hard to pull out Begum alive:
@Kamrul_Hasan: Even this is possible!
Congratulations Reshma, please stay alive and well.
Many thanks to the Bangladesh army rescue team for their efforts.
The role of the media was questioned as they converged on the rescued Begum and tried to interview her.
Journalist Tanvir Ahmed urged his colleagues on Facebook:
Please be content with interviews of rescuers and the medical team.
Don't bother asking how she survived for so many days. Why are her clothes not worn out?
Instead of answering these questions, she needs immediate medical help.
Relatives of missing or dead garment workers remain optimistic even 17 days after the incident.
Image by Shafiur Rahman.
The readymade garments industry is the largest export earners of Bangladesh, so in the eyes of many the building collapse is a negative portrayal of Bangladesh's image.
Keeping this in mind, Abu Maksud made Begum the face of Bangladesh in a post on on Facebook:
Bangladesh survived under rubble for 17 days.
Sister Reshma - you have come back from the dead hole.
You have shown that Bangladesh even survives under rubble.
Zafar Sobhan, editor of the Dhaka Tribune, concluded in an interview with Australian website News.com.au:
Reshma represents the best of Bangladesh, the nation's resilience in the face of unbelievable hardship, its courage, its strength, its determination to never give up whatever the odds.
Is Iran's Most Believable Presidential Candidate a Fictional Character? · Global Voices
Zahra for President
The iron fist of Iran's regime allows no chance for opposition candidates to run in the presidential election, but in the virtual realm, a new graphic novel character is the champion of a free and fair election.
Hundreds of hopeful Iranians have registered as candidates to replace President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as in the forthcoming election on June 14, 2013.
The conservative Council of Guardians will now appoint the shortlist of candidates who will actually run.
Zahra For President
Many still remember the massive protest movement that erupted after the election in 2009.
The activist website United4Iran and the serial web comic Zahra's Paradise have launched the virtual campaign Zahra For President 2013 to expose Iran's corrupt political system through satire.
Zahra is the hero of the graphic novel whose 19-year-old son, Mehdi, disappeared after participating in demonstrations against Iran’s 2009 election outcome.
Her campaign develops in weekly illustrated panels on the website Vote4Zahra.org.
Here is the virtual campaign message:
In 2009, Zahra and her family, along with millions of Iranians took to the streets to demand fair and free elections.
Despite a brutal crackdown, the promise of an Iranian spring—democracy, dignity, and justice—is far from extinguished.
Today, Zahra is running for President, the promise of a new day.
Join her.
Let’s win back our Iran.
The Right to a Free and Fair Election
People from around the world, including Iran, have uploaded their photos on the Facebook page for Zahra's Paradise.
Zahra's campaign in Iran
Some have posted photos with a simple but difficult to achieve slogan: "I have the right to a free and fair elections."
Firuzeh Mahmoudi, the co-founder of United4Iran
Zahra Does Not Forget Bloggers
Zahra mentions that security forces have jailed and tortured bloggers, journalists and their families.
Zahra campaigns for bloggers
Zahra's campaign reminds us of a sad truth.
Four years ago millions of Iranians believed in change, voted for real candidates, and some even sacrificed their lives.
Now, a cartoon character appears to be the most appealing candidate for some.
WeiboSuite: New Tool to Analyze Sina Weibo · Global Voices
WeiboSuite is a new toolbox for journalists and netizens.
Created by data journalists from the University of Hong Kong, WeiboSuite provides English translations of censored materials on Weibo and tools to translate textual images.
Brazil: A Nation Divided Between Protests and Football · Global Voices
It was another day to wear green and yellow t-shirts in the streets of Brazil, but for very different reasons.
For some, the national colors were to root for the home team.
For others, the shirts were to demand for political and social changes and to face the violence of military police .
On the same day that Brazil's national football team secured a place in the Confederations Cup final, protests occurred in at least 18 cities on Wednesday, 26 June.
Outside the Mineirão Stadium in Belo Horizonte city, where Brazil beat Uruguay 2-1, nearly 40,000 gathered for a protest organized by the Comitê Popular dos Atingidos pela Copa (Popular Committee for People Affected by the Cup), known as COPAC, and joined by other social movements such as the Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra (Landless Worker Movement) and the Movimento Atingidos por Barragens (People Affected by the Dam Movement).
One person died after falling from the top of a viaduct, and a fall of a second man was also reported.
At least 25 people were arrested and another 25 wounded.
A car shop was set fire and appliance shops were looted.
The mixed feeling of the nation could be seen on Twitter:
Around 6,000 people gathered together in Rio de Janeiro city to root for the Brazilian football team in the Confederations Cup semifinal on 26 June.
Photo by Tomaz Silva, Agência Brasil.
(CC BY 3.0 BR)
Brazilian attacking midfielder Lucas Moura (@LucasnaRede_) wrote:
@LucasnaRede_: Let's go for another battle! #VaiBrasil (#GoBrasil) http://instagram.com/p/bB-MUuIwPB/
Twitter user Nina Pires (@ninapires_) said she was nervous during the match:
@ninapires_What a tense match #vaiBrasil (Go Brazil) another goal, let's go!!! But the situation was summed up well by Twitter user Luiz Gusttavo Senner (@gusttavosenner): @gusttavosenner: While the #Minerão is on fire inside the protests are on fire outside on the streets of #BH (Belo Horizonte)
On the battle outside the pitch in Belo Horizonte, the demonstration that started peaceful turned violent.
COPAC's statement on Facebook explaining what happened has over 7,390 likes:
Tear gas is thrown by police into a demonstration outside Mineirão Stadium during the match between Brasil and Uruguay in Belo Horizonte.
Photo: BH nas Ruas, used with permission
Prevented from approaching the stadium in Belo Horizonte, protestors set imported vehicles on fire in a franchising car shop.
Photo: Midia NINJA, published with permission
Photo: Midia NINJA, published with permission
COPAC PUBLIC STATEMENT: IF SOMEONE IS TO BE BLAMED, BLAME FIFA!
The Popular Committee for People Affected by the Cup actively participated in another march in Belo Horizonte city for the rights of people and against the violations and privatization of the public space for the mega event FIFA Confederations Cup in course.
The march happened in a quiet and peaceful way until it reached Abraão Caram Avenue, when a major conflict began between protesters and military police.
Protesters from social movements and COPAC made ​​a human chain to isolate the access to a metal fences barrier imposed by FIFA and the state government, but some people shook the barrier and the police retaliated on all protesters by dropping "moral effect" bombs, tear gas and shooting rubber bullets.
We consider that the fact that people broke FIFA's fences is related to the social unrest against mega events organizations which have a strong private and elitist character in a country marked by many social inequalities and other priorities.
Yes, we disavow the barrier imposed because it is illegitimate, as it restricts people from their city spaces in favor of FIFA's and its partner companies' voluptuous profits...
A Twitter profile under the name @meiodabeirada criticized police for not being able to deal with the group who vandalized the protest:
@meiodabeirada : THE POLICE CAN'T GUARANTEE SAFETY, CAN'T THEY?
THEY ARE ONLY A FEW .
THE MAJORITY FOLLOWED THROUGH THE ANTONIO CARLOS AVENUE. #PROTESTOBH pic.twitter.com/PNhUwZtFSo
On the other hand, Twitter user Luiz Carlos Garrocho (@lc_garrocho) questioned:
@lc_garrocho: Is it vandalism to confront a barrier?
But what's the point to demonstrate so far away from the stadium? #protestobh
Dilma's five points
Protest in Brasilia on 26 June, 2013/ Agência Brasil (CC BY 3.0 BR)
Meanwhile in Brasilia, the National Congress made some major decisions.
On Wednesday, 26 June, a bill that makes passive and active corruption a heinous and non-bailable crime passed the Senate, and will continue on to the Chamber of Deputies and the president.
The day before, the Chamber of the Deputies had rejected a controversial proposed constitutional amendment - PEC 37- dubbed as the "bill of impunity".
They also cancelled the budget of 43 million Brazilian reais (about 20 million US dollars) that would be allocated to the Ministry of Communication to spend on technology for video broadcast and real data transport during the World Cup.
On the same day, the Chamber of the Deputies approved that 75 percent of the royalties of Brazil's Pre-Salt oilfields should be allocated to education, and 25 percent to the health system.
This series of measures prompted famous Brazilian columnist José Simão (@jose_simao) to make the following joke:
@jose_simao: The Congress is looking like a widow who has a 10-year back-up to catch up on
Brazilian President Dilma Rouseff announced reforms in five areas: public transport, political reform, health care, fiscal responsibility, and education on Monday, 24 June and is to call a referendum to implement a political reform in the country.
For the topic that started up the demonstration in the streets, public transport, the government has signaled a package of 50 billion reais (about 23 billion US dollars).
Roussef had a meeting with all Brazilian city mayors, state governors and member of the Free Fare Movement, the force which organized the first protests of what became the Vinegar Revolt later, on the same day.
Some have pointed out that the government has dismissed the fact that inflation has returned in Brazil.
Protesters kicked 594 soccer balls in front of the National Congress in capital Brasilia to symbolize that they are passing the ball to the 594 parliamentarians.
Photo by Fabio Rodrigues Pozzebom on June 26, 2013, Agência Brasil (CC BY 3.0 BR)
Brunei: ‘Slow Internet is Almost Like Censorship’ · Global Voices
Brunei internet users are complaining against the slow and unreliable internet connection in their country.
Writing for The Brunei Times, Shareen Han cited a study by the World Economic Forum which listed Brunei as having one of the most expensive internet rates in Southeast Asia.
But many Brunei netizens feel they are getting poor internet service for the high fees they are paying.
Through Twitter, The Brunei Times posted this question:
Are you satisfied with Internet services in #Brunei?
A tweetup event in Brunei.
Bruneians are among the most active social media users in Asia.
Photo from Flickr page of Reeda‏The replies are mostly complaints about the slow internet connection provided by the country’s three major telco providers. @nadiebytes even compared the slow internet to censorship:
No!
The internet provides easy access to a wealth of info.
Slow internet is almost like censorship.
Here are similar comments about the slow internet in Brunei:
@ZeekCrazy I don't think even the mouse is satisfied. ‏
@janetlivetravel No!
It's 2013.
Internet, technology, information and social media should be there with just a click of a finger.
TOO SLOW
@masruuuuur Try finding someone who IS satisfied ‏@almstfrsh not worth what we're paying for.
‏@AmeerahIsa seriously NOT HAPPY with it.
I mean we pay for so and so mbps, and the speed is not even near to what we paid for.
‏
@_hakims very disappointing.. even my parents complain.. sorry #workitout
@ongscw Investigations on regular service disruptions should be conducted.
I would choose SLOW Internet over NONE AT ALL any day.
@Aliffen41 Light years away from it.
@bobby_trisyia thankful but not satisfied..slow and expensive
According to a report, Brunei has at least 200,000 internet users who are among the most active in social media usage in Asia.
However, only 56 per cent of Bruneians are internet users.
Some internet users are actually quite satisfied with the quality of internet in the country:
@AnwarOmarAli yes very satisfied.
@berrymerlina speed, yes!
High price can't be argued because of population & competition unlike other countries
@Yunn_ha even if there's vast improvements with the speed, We will never be(satisfied).
Haha #sobrunei
@oxba 6 years ago, 3G wasn't around and ADSL was at 256kbps.
10 years ago, I can't even surf the web on my mobile.
I am satisfied.
Even before the publication of the article in The Brunei Times about the internet quality in the country, Bruneians have been complaining about it for some time already:
@Natterulala Brunei's internet is the main reason why most bruneians suffer from High Blood Pressure and Depression.
@AzizHarun212 OMG Brunei's internet really knows how to piss people off
Elliop notes that internet speed has not improved in Brunei:
I don’t know about you but I for one am wondering why in this day and age where internet speeds are measured not in single digits but 10’s or 100’s of Mbps. Brunei’s internet speed has not changed much in years, and is lagging behind the rest of the world significantly.
A petition was created demanding answers about the slow internet in Brunei:
We the people of Brunei want to know:
• Why Brunei’s internet access speed is so slow?
• Why Brunei’s internet access is unreliable?
• When will the internet access reliability be improved.
Joe King thinks telcos are not pressured to improve service:
The problem is they are the monopoly in the market here, so they do not feel the pressure to deliver what we need.
Who else can we turn to to get quality service?
They're only out to get your money
How Southeast Asian Leaders Use Twitter · Global Voices
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono or SBY joined the Twitter world only last April 13 but he is already the most popular Southeast Asian leader, at least in terms of Twitter followers.
As of this writing, he has 2.4 million followers.
Meanwhile, Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, who has been an active Twitter user since 2008, continues to be his country’s most popular Twitter personality with 1.6 million followers.
Philippine President Noynoy Aquino is also a prominent Twitter user with 1.5 million followers.
Indonesia’s @SBYudhoyono joined the Twitter world by posting these 140 characters:
@SBYudhoyono: Hello, people of Indonesia.
I have joined Twitter to exchange greetings, views and inspirations.
Nice to meet you.
He also tweeted the main points of his speech at the Nanyang Technological University in Singapore about the achievements and priorities of his administration.
@SBYudhoyono: 15.
We did not just reform, we transformed – "reformasi" to "transformasi".
@SBYudhoyono: 16.
Today we’re a trillion dollar economy, largest economy and middle class in Southeast Asia; 6.3% growth, second after China.
He also gave an advice to Arab Spring countries:
@SBYudhoyono: 31.
Muslims in Indonesia are comfortable with democracy and modernity.
This may well offer valuable lessons to Arab Spring countries.
Enricko Lukman welcomes the entry of SBY in the Twitter world:
It is great to see how technology is being used more and more by important figures.
It allows them to interact with people better and even send out important news and messages in real time.
I hope this can set the trend for future Indonesian leaders to do the same – to listen to and speak with citizens online. SBY is not the first Indonesian politician who opened a Twitter account which prompted Akhlis to ask about the motive of SBY:
I don’t know what to say but it is very much out of character to him.
So what makes me wonder is: Why now?
Isn’t it now much too late to get actively involved on social media?
Even if that’s for political reason, this is so left behind.
Many politicians have begun this long before 2013.
Indeed, Indonesian politicians cannot ignore social media tools since a big number of Indonesians are getting their information from the internet.
In fact, Indonesia is among the biggest markets of Facebook and Twitter in the world.
Wayne Palmer explains further:
Using social media to gauge public opinion is certainly the beginning of something quite new in Indonesia.
Politicians themselves have been quick to recognise its capacity to spread information and shape public opinion.
The ease with which the public can openly express their opinions via social media complicates matters for Indonesia’s political elite, many of whom, among other things, have a reputation for the way in which they handle public complaints – ranging from defensiveness to outright petulance.
Nonetheless, with all its opportunities and traps, social media has reshaped the playing field in Indonesian political life for those with their sights set on power.
But despite his large following, SBY must learn to interact with his constituents on Twitter.
According to social media experts, SBY rarely responds to his Twitter followers.
If SBY wanted some pointers on how to effectively use Twitter in politics, he can probably learn from Malaysia’s @NajibRazak.
Like SBY, Najib’s initial tweets were limited to public statements of his office but in 2011 he began interacting with his followers.
He even used Twitter to invite his followers to watch a live broadcast of his favorite football team.
He hosted several meetups as well.
And when Korean singer Psy of ‘Gangnam Style’ fame performed in Malaysia, he clarified on Twitter that no government funds were used in the public event.
@NajibRazak: Just to reiterate, Psy's performance did not involve public money at all.
Public was not charged for watching it either.
Najib described last month’s General Elections as Malaysia’s ‘first social media election’, which is probably his way of acknowledging the crucial role of the internet in shaping the views of voters.
Najib’s party won again although there were allegations of voting fraud.
Najib’s recent tweets included the following:
@NajibRazak: Just heard Nelson Mandela is in hospital in South Africa.
I'm sure all Msians will join me in wishing him a speedy recovery.
@NajibRazak: Authorities will investigate tragic incident on Penang bridge.
Let's focus on rescue efforts and pray for victims & their families.
@NajibRazak: Joint dev key to solving South China Sea disputes.
Sharing prosperity rather than letting it divide us is preferable to the alternative.
@NajibRazak: If you have any views or proposals Budget 2014, email it to Ministry of Finance.
Goal is to engage Msians to help create a #BetterNation
@NajibRazak: In the spirit of unity, I announced over the weekend a bipartisan parliamentary committee to be given oversight over the Election Commission
Najib is clearly Malaysia’s leading Twitter user but there are reports that more than half of his followers are using fake Twitter accounts.
Like Najib, the Philippines’ @noynoyaquino maximized social media tools to succeed in the elections.
Aquino’s online presence in the 2010 presidential elections boosted his winning chances.
After elections, Aquino maintained his high social media profile.
Today he has several Twitter and Facebook accounts managed by three Cabinet members.
There was one instance when Aquino directly answered a Facebook critic which showed how the president’s team is efficiently using social media networks to improve the government’s image.
But not all Southeast Asian leaders were successful in using Twitter to connect with their constituents.
Thailand’s Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra or @PouYingluck was forced to cancel her Twitter account in 2011 after it was hacked.
The hacker was able to post these messages:
You can't protect even your Twitter account.
How can you safeguard the country?
Think about it my brothers and sisters.
Is it time for our country to change for the better and not project an image to aid businesses, vested interests and relatives?
Overall, Twitter and other social media tools have been very useful for Southeast Asian leaders who needed to communicate directly with their citizens.
Social media can improve their image as tech-savvy leaders which could prove appealing to the younger population.
The rise of mobile internet in the region and the globe also means more people would be interacting with governments and their leaders through handsets and tablets.
It would most likely inspire even the traditional or older politicians to ‘speak’ to their constituents and deliver their message through virtual means.
Brazilians Poke Fun at Intelligence Agency Spooks · Global Voices
Brazilian netizens are in fits of giggles at the news that the Brazilian Intelligence Agency (ABIN) has hastily launched an operation to monitor the Internet .
Caught off guard by the demonstrations that are popping up around the country, the government has deployed intelligence officials to check the activities and movements of protesters through Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and WhatsApp.
While people across Brazil prepare for upcoming protests, the movement leaders have started to be followed on social networks by civil servants, who have been tasked with analysing the temperature and scale of upcoming demonstrations using Mosaico, a monitoring system that tracks about 700 topics identified by the Government.
Whilst Facebook, Twitter and Instagram are partially open, depending on the level of user privacy, for instant messaging application WhatsApp, only users included in a given conversation can read the exchanged messages.
For this reason, the news was met with mockery on social networks.
Nick (‏@NickEllis) begins: "ABIN is monitoring Whatsapp" Hahahahaha!!! Guilherme Jedi (‏@JediBR) replies:
@NickEllis @azaghal Yeah, they keep pressing F5 to check for updates. :P
Marcos Gomes (@marcogomes) agrees that the Government has taken on an impossible mission: The Govt. is SO out of touch that ABIN believes they can monitor WhatsApp (impossible, WA is not in Brazil) http://ow.ly/mduMa #protestosbr Marcelo N (@neozeitgeist) also jokes:
When "Brazilian intelligence service" is mentioned, it is either about torture or a joke.
Now Abin says they will MONITOR Whatsapp http://t.co/RbWc5q027x
E t. c. grocho (@elgroucho) also pokes fun:
With Abin monitoring Twitter and Facebook, I can just see many being held in the next protests for possession of .gif
Leonardo Farias (@leofariasrj25) has a suggestion:
Mate, I think that ABIN systems should be affectionately dubbed 'cock-up'.
Nobre (@nobreceara) takes the opportunity to check on his followers:
Who could guarantee that this person with a wigged dog as avatar is not actually Mr. Tenorio, 52, a government spook?
Stephano Souza (@stephanoFSouza) reacts with sarcasm:
Hi there ABIN, are you sitting comfortably out there reading our messages??? #vemprarua #ogiganteacordou #protestobh
Some people were angry at the news, such as Roberto Soares:
Right...
Dear friends, why the hell don't you go inspecting public finances?
Why don't you investigate the links between politicians and their ghost companies?
Since monitoring MILLIONS of Brazilians is easy... spending our money on it, so do it responsibly...
Monitor our politicians and their companies...
Monitor our public-sector buildings...
Meet your own obligations responsibly and with "intelligence", those who should be checked up on ​​in this country are POLITICIANS and GANGSTERS... their bank accounts, their phones, emails and of course their whatsapp, because none of them has a cheap $100 mobile phone that is only good for making and receiving calls...
ABIN and CIA as Big Brother.
Image by @PartidoPirataBR
CIA Made in Brazil
There were plenty of comparisons between the Mosaico, the system employed by Abin, and PRISM, the system used by the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States (CIA).
The Pirate Party of Brazil (PartidoPirataBR) publishes the image on the right to compare the two systems, explaining:
Abin intensifies monitoring of activists on the Internet due to protests against the increase in bus fares. pic.twitter.com/P4shYQDZOz
Sérgio Pavarini (@pavarini) says that the U.S. president, Barack Obama is "making school":
Abin monta rede para monitorar internet http://t.co/VsBhIq1otK escolinha do prof. obama Abin deploys network to monitor internet http://t.co/VsBhIq1otK Professor Obama's little school
The only question is whether they will use @ImNotABIN, @MrGossip, @ABIN_USER_246 or @JamesBond22331 as avatar.
The scariest thing of all is that the government has been caught off guard.
Not by Abin's incompetence, but because of the overall alienation of the top dogs.
It is more than clear that the current administration doesn't give a damn about social media ...
Infographic by @Cardoso, published with permission This post was proofread by Nicola Gardner.
PHOTOS: Police Blanket Rio Protesters, Bystanders in Tear Gas, Rubber Bullets · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage page Brazil's Vinegar Revolt.
A week ago today, on the evening of June 20, 2013, Brazil was shaken by the biggest wave of protests in the country's recent history.
In Rio de Janeiro, an event that began with a peaceful march from the downtown city to the mayor's office spread to other neighborhoods and ended in violent clashes between police and protesters .
According to official estimates, about 300,000 people attended the rally in Rio de Janeiro.
Among them, Brazilian photographer Calé recorded in photos the indiscriminate use of rubber bullets, pepper spray and tear gas by the military police on unarmed protesters.
The result are the testimony and photos below, handpicked by Calé for Global Voices Online:
At the beginning of the demonstration, people were dancing and partying on the way to the mayor's office, making it a joyful moment.
Photo: Calé, published with permission
Last night I covered the protest in Rio, and saw the police use tear gas and rubber bullets to sweep clean the streets of downtown Rio, in a clear case of abuse of power.
A violent group started a fight with supporters of a left wing party, but police took a long time to respond and didn't arrest anyone.
For the most part it was a peaceful and joyful gathering, with bands playing carnival songs and people of all ages caring flags and posters laying their claims.
There were minor incidents, like a fight between supporters of a left wing party and youngsters who disagreed the march should be exploited or connected to any political party.
A man is wounded in the protest and helped by others in the crowd.
Demonstrators made a human chain in front of the police to avoid skirmishes, and try to keep the protest peaceful.
The bodybuilder Gabriel Campos kissing the horse of an officer, as part of his provocations.
Demonstrators used wood panels as shields and threw stones at the police.
As there was no response, the demonstrators tried to take justice in their own hands, and a fight broke out.
It was just the excuse the police was waiting for.
At the first sight of misbehavior they started aiming tear gas and rubber bullets at the crowd.
Terror as people flee the Police.
In response, many stores and buildings were vandalized and robbed on Presidente Vargas Avenue.
Police pass by garbage on fire, as buildings were vandalized on Presidente Vargas Avenue.
Even after the riot was over they kept throwing tear gas at peaceful demonstrators on their way home, far away from the mayor's office.
There was no distinction between troublemakers and peaceful people trying to find their way back home.
As the subway stations were closed, everyone had to walk their way out of the conflict zone.
A street seller gasps for air after inhaling tear gas, as police become indiscriminate in their attacks, aiming rubber bullets and tear gas at innocent people too.
Downstairs many were nauseous and laying down.
People at Carioca station watching police pass Avenida Rio Branco raise their hands in gesture of peace.
Many people who left the march at the fist sign of trouble decided to go to the Lapa neighborhood to have a beer, a distant and safe place in their heads.
But soon the squads were there too and they were trapped inside restaurants and bars as chaos reigned in the streets.
As people started shouting at the police, they irresponsibly threw tear gas inside buildings too.
Police throws tear gas at peaceful demonstrators waiting for the subway station to open.
The subway staff opened a side gate for people to get in looking for shelter, but it created a funnel were they were stuck breathing gas.
Downstairs many were laying down nauseous.
Yes, there were vandals in the march who broke and burnt things, but most of these acts were confined to Presidente Vargas Avenue, closer to the mayor's office.
So why did the police have such a large ray of action and pointed their guns at innocent people?
At gatherings and in social media, people now talk about their fear of joining new demonstrations, and some want it all to stop.
Only one expression comes to my mind to explain the behavior of our police force: state terrorism.
Police pass by garbage on fire, as some started to vandalize buildings on Presidente Vargas Avenue.
All photos in this post have been published with permission from Calé, who besides working as a commercial photographer, has developed artistic and authorial projects all over the world.
Some of his photos can be see at the series Buscadores (Seekers), on display at Ateliê da Imagem in Rio de Janeiro.
Seekers has been shown in solo exhibitions in Denmark, Russia, Argentina and Bolivia, and has been part of collective shows in USA and Irland.
Demonstrator ask for peace in the the middle of the fight.
Billions of Japan's Post-Quake Relief Funds Didn't Help Victims · Global Voices
A major Japanese newspaper has revealed that billions of yen meant to employ people in areas devastated by a powerful earthquake and resulting tsunami off the northeastern Japan in 2011 were funneled into other unrelated projects that did not benefit the victims.
The Asahi Shimbun reported that of the 200 billion yen (two billion US dollars) of government budget meant to help those who lost their homes and jobs in the Great East Japan Earthquake, more than half went to 38 prefectures other than the nine affected in the Tohoku region.
Emergency employment budget was spent on, among other things, a team of workers to count sea turtles, an international manga comic expo, and a campaign to promote Yamaguchi Prefecture with a green-haired mascot called Choruru.
The news of the misappropriation of reconstruction funds drew criticism among social media users.
Twitter user @2_happy commented with disappointment:
@2_happy: Public office and authorities doing such terrible job in this country.
Can we still call this country doing just fine? _BAR_ One hundred billion reconstruction fund diverted
The editor of cyclingtime.com, a portal site for bicycle fans, slammed the “money-grubbers” responsible for the misuse of the money on Twitter.
The comment was retweeted for more than 200 times:
@cyclochabumaro: Of 65000 people hired in 38 different prefectures in disaster recovery effort, only 3% were the residents of the disaster-stricken area.
97% were from elsewhere.
Please.
You should be kidding me, this was meant to help recover from the disaster.
Too many money-grabbers making people believe that they are sympathizing and helping fellow citizens.
Shingo Nishinari (@shingo_ghetto), a rapper who is known for political criticism, commented:
@shingo_ghetto: Disappointing.
This is unforgivable diverting.
Ministries and agencies making excuse to make money.
Heartless organizations and groups carrying the money away.
My deepest wish for true reconstruction.
Billions of Reconstruction fund have been reportedly used for unrelated project.
Image by Keiko Tanaka
This is not the first time that disaster relief funds for the Great East Japan Earthquake have been used for unrelated projects.
Kahoku Shimpo, a regional newspaper in the greater Sendai area in central Japan, wrote in June 2011 with disappointment that the government hired national contractors over local contractors from the devastated region to build temporary housing for earthquake victims.
And The Hokkaido Newspaper wrote editorial in October 2012 criticizing that 3.4 billion yen of relief aid was used to fund road construction on southwestern Okinawa island, which was unaffected by the earthquake.Twitter user inakamon_jiji (@Inakamon_jiji), whose name means an old man in the countryside, commented on Hokkaido Newspaper’s editorial:
@Inakamon_jiji: “Appropriation of reconstruction budget, unforgivable bureaucrats.” says the paper.
The essence of this issue is that government officials are incompetent in governing the country.
It’s obvious they needed to do something before they increase taxes.
After the earthquake, fierce criticism was also directed at the mainstream media and public relations agencies which allegedly devoured parts of the reconstruction budget to run morale-boosting public service announcements using celebrities on television.
In 2012, blogger popo wrote about the massive spending by these large television stations funded by siphoning off disaster relief funds.
The blogger referenced an article by weekly magazine Post Seven which broke the story in August 2012 .
According to the piece, of the entire reconstruction budget, more than three billion yen were used for recovery support advertisements.
The local fishermen’s guilds in disaster-stricken areas barely got any government support and some were forced to shut down business due to a lack of financing.
If this piece really reports the truth, I think these major stations should be shut down immediately!
The latest funding revelations by Asahi Shimbun drew vocal criticism.
In response to the report, the government plans to ask local governments and other organizations to stop using the reconstruction money and return any untouched funds to the government, according to the newspaper.
The Finance Ministry is currently investigating the matter.
On blogroll esteru.com, an anonymous author criticized the plan as being too late.
Anonymous users debated in comments below the blogger’s post, trading blame and squabbling about whether it was the fault of the former ruling party Democratic Party Japan (DPJ) or the current Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) administration:
I think LDP was quick to take action on this misuse of the reconstruction fund, given how messy of a situation the DPJ created.
I’m pretty sure LDP needed at least a half year to respond to the misappropriated budget issue.
I don’t understand why some people here are blaming on LDP.
I suppose they have no idea about political system.
I see this story on hauling budget appropriation as a demonstration of LDP’s competency.
I mean think about it:it was not LDP that established the fund in the first place.
It’s obviously difficult to return funds especially when it was legally proceeded.
So they blame DPJ for this?
I bet they don’t understand how the Basic Act on Reconstruction passed.
When DPJ made cabinet decision on the bill, it included one sentence; the budget should be exclusively used in disaster-stricken area.
But when the Diet lawmakers of DPJ-LDP-Komei party together put into legislation, they decided that this budget should not be exclusive.
So they are all to be blamed.
It’s been two years since the diversion of disaster relief funds was first criticized.
I think the government is to blame for not interfering with the agencies responsible for the funds.
This is not a partisan issue.
The pork-barrel spending is an act of government agencies. It’s not a partisan issue.
Government agencies are the wrongdoers that spend money without monitoring the use.
On Twitter, Nakano Takashi, who organizes a project in Minamisoma city, Fukushima to support victims of the earthquake, argued that it's not a partisan issue:
@wildft: These budgets that were scrounged via tax increase, but were misused massively; 2 trillion, 1.2 trillion, 10 billion yens used for funding "yuru chara" regional cartoon mascot, local idols, national road construction, counting turtles, gourmet.
Each local municipality applied for the fund.
In other words, all of us is responsible.
Coffee Art Goes 3D in Japan · Global Voices
In the land where green tea remains the hot beverage of choice, 3D coffee art is winning hearts one foamy cup at a time.
More and more cafe goers in Japan, inspired by popular photos on social media that show steamed milk creations rising out of a coffee drink, are asking that their latte be topped with a similar work of lofty art.
Japan is no stranger to coffee.
The All Japan Coffee Association has reported that Japan is third in terms of total consumption among importing countries.
In 2010, Haruna Murayama of Japan won the World Latte Art Championship.
Flat latte art is already popular around the island nation.
A search of "latte art" on Twitter returns many photos of special lattes bearing the shapes of hearts, leaves, teddy bears, popular anime characters, and even Internet icons.
A vending machine in Haneda Airport, Tokyo's international airport, even serves cappuccino with the face of a classic Japanese female, designed and produced by Kyoto's well-known cosmetic company Yojiya.
But baristas have pushed this creative coffee phenomena to a new level with foamy 3D sculptures. 3D latte art by Twitter user @george_10g: "A cat is looking at golden fish."
Kazuki Yamamoto (@george_10g), the latte art master who uploads his latte art on Twitter, wrote in his blog that he works at a Belgian beer house in Osaka.
He calls his latte art "spare time cappuccino" , a creation out of boredom or spare time, of course with great efforts and labor of love.
He once posted to Twitter recalling numerous works of latte art that he had drawn:
@george_10g: I started drawing on lattes in 2011 and I've drawn and served roughly about 1,000 cups by 2012 but somehow I still remember when and what I've drawn and who I served it for.
It's kind of creepy.
Twitter user @petakopetako responded to his comment praising his specialty:
@petakopetako: I like taking photos.
Normally I am bad at remembering people's faces, but once I take photos of them, I can remember where it was and what they were talking about.
Maybe people remember things better when doing something they are passionate about.
The social media effect
Cafe owners and baristas in Japan have uploaded photos of their secret, off-the-menu 3D latte art to social media.
These images were circulated widely and later gained the attention of local broadcasters and magazines.
The publicity has attracted so many new clients to some coffee houses that owners are struggling to keep up.
The owner of Cafe Bar Jihan in Shizuoka prefecture wrote about Facebook effect in his blog :
I started serving 3D latte art after my long-time customer asked me to do it.
I uploaded the picture on Facebook page just for fun, then I was astonished to see the enormous number of people who liked the photo.
With the image widely amplified, several media outlets asked me that they wanted to cover our coffeehouse.
I was a bit confused by being asked to appear on television in Tokyo!
Facebook photo by caffe.bar.jihan.
A cat is taking a bath in espresso coffee.
He also wrote :
This kitty cat latte art requires so much time that I can't take orders when things are busy in our cafe.
I've been struggling with what to do about this situation.
At least the cafe is relatively slow after 6 p.m. on weekdays, so if you are visiting for 3D latte art, please come around these times.
This post was originally written by Ayako Yokota.
Keiko Tanaka edited her post and L. Finch sub-edited.
Dirty Words Russian Girls Can’t Say on the Internet · Global Voices
Fellatio has long been part of the rich tapestry of politics worldwide.
For anyone alive and cognizant during the 1990s, Bill Clinton’s licentious escapades with Monica Lewinsky will forever color (or taint, depending on your perspective) the image of the American White House.
Earlier this week, on May 13, 2013, opposition figure Maria Baronova penned an open letter to writer and political dissident Eduard Limonov, wherein she dropped a sexual bombshell of her own.
Her text unabashedly refers to “masturbating in the shower” and credits Limonov—whose works are famous for their intricate descriptions of lewd sex acts—with teaching her (through his books) how to “suck dick” “without false modesty” and “fuck like an animal.”
Baronova’s letter included a great deal more than these offhand sexual remarks, though it is those remarks that undoubtedly explain the online backlash that followed.
Maria Baronova at a Moscow protest, 17 April 2013, photo by Nickolay Vinokurov, copyright © Demotix.
Sexism, locked and loaded
This week has been unusually cruel to women on Russian Twitter.
In addition to the wave of sexist jokes that washed up after the RuNet learned about film star Angelina Jolie’s preventative double mastectomy, many Russian netizens took Baronova’s sexual revelations as an invitation to attack her specifically and female public figures more broadly.
Some of the insults came from the usual suspects, like tabloid editor Ashot Gabrelyanov, who proposed on Twitter that Jolie auction off for charity her removed breasts on eBay.
Also joining the fun, however, was one of Pussy Riot’s lawyers—the infamously unpleasant Mark Feygin—who mused in a (now deleted) tweet:
By the way, regarding Jolie’s tits, maybe she’s using this to cover up a sex change operation.
Transgenders slice off.
Hey now.
Indeed, Feygin was on a roll.
Commenting on Baronova’s open letter just a day before, he wrote in a tweet (that he has not deleted):
Regarding a certain now widely discussed text, one tiny remark: … this , if you will, is the only thing she learned…
Lev Sharansky (a satirist personality run anonymously) quipped with open-ended sexism:
Yesterday Baronova, today Jolie.
I await tomorrow with horror.
Others decided to broaden their aim and take shots at different prominent Russian women.
Anna Veduta, opposition leader Alexey Navalny’s press secretary, found herself in Twitter user berdnikov’s crosshairs:
Anna Veduta is a better-raised young woman than Maria Barnova, therefore she doesn’t tell us what she’s learned from Alexey Navalny.
One of the many demotivators that appeared, following Baronova's open letter.
Demotivators soon popped up online, such as an image featuring Limonov above the text: “He taught Maria Baronova to suck dick.
And what have you done today?”
Another popular mash-up (see image to the right), which Baronova herself retweeted, included a photo of her riding a scooter below another picture of a blonde woman sitting in an expensive convertible.
The caption is the Karl Marx quote: “From each according to his ability, to each according to his need.”
(The joke is that Baronova’s “ability” only earned her a scooter, rather than a sports car.)
Bringing in Baronova’s one-time boss, Duma Deputy Ilya Ponomarev (who himself retweeted , rather strangely, Baronova’s line about masturbating in the shower), Twitter user fuckdaoutlaw asked:
Why didn’t Ilya Ponomarev teach his assisant Baronova to suck d**k?
Twitter user rusrusdada expanded the attack on Baronova into a jibe at the entire protest movement, writing:
In truth, Baronova, apart from the whole Bolotnaya clique, deserves respect.
She alone has honestly confessed that she sucks.
The others suck, too, but they conceal it.
The LJ cesspool
On LiveJournal, where an absence of character limits accompanies the bravery of online anonymity, commentary was more substantive, but no less harsh.
A May 14 post by music critic Artem Rondarev functioned as a sort of beacon for Baronova’s critics, many of whom argued vociferously that politics is no place for raunchy women.
In the comments to his post, Rondarev explained his position on Baronova’s lack of sexual modesty in her public prose, interpreting her lewdness as an endorsement of anarchy:
in the case of Masha, I just tried to explain the simple idea that it’s impossible to live in society and be free from it.
One might not like everything about it, but the dilemma is simple: it’s either society with its conventions, or you’re in Somalia.
Because, you see, tomorrow you’ll have an upstairs neighbor blasting rap music all night long at top volume, and when you go up to confront him, he’ll say that this is his means of self-expression, and you’re just a prude who sleeps at night, while all the free people listen to rap.
Well?
In another comment on Rondarev’s post, LiveJournal user pervert_tanuki called Baronova “a furious attention whore,” to which Rondarev responded less than charitably:
Again—I’m not searching for Masha’s motivation.
She’s obviously shallow It’s understandable that a young woman wants to screw; I’m interested, to put it crudely, in why similar girls always want precisely to screw, and not to read books.
Several bloggers have concluded that Baronova’s vulgarity damages any chances she has at a career in politics.
In separate posts on LiveJournal, user haeldar and Google+ user mc project proposed a scenario thirty years in the future, where Baronova is now a Duma deputy serving a post-Putin Russian democracy.
According to the plot, the now stately Baronova proposes some piece of moralist legislation (for example, banning sex robots), only to remind the public that “Maria Baronova in her youth was not above getting fucked in every hole.”
Even Kirill Goncharov, leader of the youth wing of Russia’s oldest liberal political party, joked on Twitter:
So, as I understand it, Masha Baronova today publicly ceased to be involved in politics?
Twitter user VRebyata also resonated the idea that Baronova’s bawdiness causes problems for women in government, writing:
Baronova stirred up Twitter.
Now the most popular question to female politicians will be the question about their relationship to Eduard Limonov’s books
In one comment thread on LiveJournal, a group of netizens even thought it fair to compare Baronova’s talk of oral sex to Pussy Riot member Nadezhda Tolokonnikova’s participation in a public orgy.
They even connected Baronova and Tolokonnikova to Cicciolina, the famed pornstar and member of the Italian parliament in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
Baronova’s guile?
Not everyone deplored Baronova for her letter to Limonov, however.
Many bloggers seemed willing to accept that her use of vulgarity was a cunning, if shrewd, ploy to gain an audience.
Indeed, Norway-based Facebook user Andrew Voronkov observed :
If she hadn’t written about it , then many people would not have read the article.
Poland-based LJ user Andrei Karatkevich enumerated four justifications for Baronova’s scandalous word choice:
The contents of the text cannot be reduced just to sucking dick, though everyone is quoting exactly that phrase.
On the other hand, the girl obviously understood that everyone would quote exactly that.
3. novel “It’s Me, Eddie” is remembered more than anything for the scene where he sucks the dick of a black man … and nothing more.
And he taught her things necessary and useful…
Even some of Baronova’s critics felt compelled to acknowledge her letter’s publicity success.
In a long response published the day after Baronova’s text, Pavel Zherebin (a member of Limonov’s NatsBol movement) offered the following measured praise:
This article will become famous because Maria used an ingenuous approach—a shocking tone that touches on extremely sexual issues.
Until now, political journalism was free from promoting its ideas by such methods.
Therefore, we can only applaud Maria—she’s a brave innovator who decided not just to fill her article to the edges with female genderness, but also to express that genderness in plain speak, in the most sincere and exciting expressions.
Maria Baronova, Moscow, 25 August 2012, photo by Anton Nossik, CC 2.0.
In a comment on Rondarev’s blog, Baronova herself confirmed that she consciously employed gender as a means to generate a larger dialogue (about both Limonov and women in contemporary Russian politics):
The purpose of the letter was to get a reaction from the public and rattle it up.
This society is mostly reactionary and conservative.
My goal has been reached entirely.
I got tons of shit and chuckles: “WEEEENIE.”
From there, , people discuss.
A discussion arose.
Eventually, everyone comes to something all their own, and for me it’s nice that people will realize something important (and something deeply their own).
End of story.
Not everyone is a hater
Many bloggers, of course, refused to attack Baronova, and some rallied to her defense.
Journalist Arina Kholina, for instance, credited her in a Facebook post with capturing the collective experience of a generation of Russian women:
I don’t know why everyone is ripping into Masha Baronova.
She was being honest.
Limonov’s book about Eddie, it’s true, was one of the sexual experiences of adolescence.
Especially after the USSR.
Masha had the courage the write about it.
Okay, it turned out a little clumsy.
Maybe, of course, particularly mature or intelligent people read about something entirely different, but when I was 16-years-old, I was thinking about sex.
And, yes, in a sense, it was a sort of textbook.
Probably, if Masha had written that the book taught her how to sew a lace shirt , everyone would just melt for her.
But she, without shame, wrote about blowjobs.
Opposition activist Ilya Yashin tried to relocate the focus of RuNet mockery to government officials, tweeting:
I hope Deputy Burmatov never writes an open letter to Viacheslav Volodin.
I don’t want to know what he taught him.
Vera Kichanova, one of the opposition’s youngest figures, tweeted innocently:
Limonov only taught me to curse .
Russia after blowjobs
One day after publishing her open letter, Baronova granted an interview to Daria Yausheva of jourdom.ru, where she addressed the backlash to her explicit sexual language:
It’s like Evgeny Feldman wrote today: “Limonov taught Baronova to suck d**k, but Putin taught the whole country.”
Once again, a man can write about sex quite freely, but for women in Russia it’s still a semi-prohibited topic.
Especially if you’re involved in politics, must at all times observe certain confines, within which, in fact, nobody has lived for a long time.
Baronova identifies a cultural contradiction that is hardly unique to Russia.
Certainly, the perseverance of sexist “confines” plagues societies the world over, no matter how developed or humane the civilization.
The Internet response to Baronova’s talk of sex, whether one reads her text as a raised fist to patriarchy or a frivolous attempt at self-promotion, reveals that prejudices against freewheeling women enjoy widespread popularity among Russian netizens.
That said, Baronova’s own audacity over the last 18 months—and the prospect of decades more to follow—promises to keep Russia’s male chauvinists busy indeed.
Blackout Mapping in Cambodia · Global Voices
Urban Voice, a Phnom Penh-based crowdsourcing initiative, has mapped the blackouts which have become frequent in the city and other parts of Cambodia.
In the past two months, Urban Voice has received over 110 reports of power cuts with some districts experiencing ten-hour long power cuts.
Last May 22, a power failure in south Vietnam plunged Phnom Penh into darkness.
Vietnam provides Cambodia with some 40 percent of its power supply.
The massive blackout sparked online discussion about the country’s power supply situation.
Citizens are demanding explanation about the recurring blackouts in recent months.
Although power returned around 8pm, Phnom Penh’s residents remain disgruntled.
The mass outage follows a month of severe power cuts around the city, resulting in extensive socio-economic costs due to their unpredictability.
Blackout mapping in Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
Image from Urban Voice
My Sovann of Urban Voice presented the mapping result to Electricité du Cambodge, the country’s electricity provider:
The issue at stake here is thus not that power cuts occur, it is their unpredictability.
Not knowing when, where, and for how long power cuts will take place, imposes socio-economic costs on businesses, organisations, and individuals.
These could easily be avoided if Phnom Penh residents knew when to expect power cuts, and would hence be able to make alternative arrangements.
Urban Voice urges the company to publish the schedule of the power cuts:
Here’s our message to the Electricité du Cambodge (EDC): Publish the Power Cuts, or give us a better explanation for why disclosing a schedule is supposedly “impossible.”
Image from Urban VoiceHere are some reactions on Twitter about the blackouts in Cambodia:
@CarrieJeanneJ Longest blackout in my Cambodian history.
I'm sitting on our roof with a (slight) breeze,listening to geckos "geck-o"-ing&crickets chirping.
‏
@C_Panhavion and it's raining, let it pour down and frozen the earth. damn hot recently since the electricity usually cut off.
‏@Sokly543 Electricity is cut off. I can't do anything now
Thousands Are Joining Bosnia's 'Babylution' · Global Voices
People in Bosnia-Herzegovina are crossing the country's deep ethnic divides by the thousands to protest against the government's failure to remedy a lapse in the law that is preventing newborns from being given an identity number and, by extension, travel papers and healthcare.
The protests, which began on June 5, 2013 and have been dubbed "Babylution", were sparked by the story of a gravely ill three-month-old girl, Belmina Ibrišević, who at the time could not leave the country to get the stem cell treatment abroad that she needed, even though her health was critical and necessary treatment could not be provided in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Days later, the unrest intensified following the news that one-month-old Berina Hamidović died at the Institute for Mother and Child in Belgrade, Serbia of sepsis after the medical treatment she needed was delayed.
The baby could not leave because of the country's failure to pass a new law on ID numbers after the old law expired in February.
Thanks to this legal gap, newborn babies only receive a temporary number which impedes them from receiving travel documents, which would be necessary to seek medical treatment abroad.
Protesters began speaking out against lawmakers' inaction under the hashtag #JMBG, which stands for the Unique Master Citizen Number.
On June 6, demonstrators gathered in Sarajevo and blocked the Parliament building, refusing to allow politicians and foreign guests inside to leave the building and demanding the urgent passing of the Law on Unique Master Citizen Numbers.
Suad Baručija posted a video on YouTube of supporters arriving from Zenica to join the Sarajevo protesters, in which they are heard chanting "We want change!":
On Twitter, the news quickly spread under the hashtag #jmbg, as those present at the peaceful protest or nearby transmitted the events of the evening live.
Director of Communications at International Center for Transitional Justice Refik Hodžić (@ledenik1) tweeted a picture of a person leaving the Parliament building through a ground-floor window:
@ledenik1: #BiH parliament staff escaping through windows the building surrounded by protesters instead of joining them. #jmbg pic.twitter.com/NhdMNaGCxv
Twitter user Irma Plavčić (@Irma_A_P) clarified the reasons behind the protest:
@Irma_A_P: From the battle for human rights and #jmbg, the violation of those, international scandals to the destruction of opportunities for investment capital.
All in 1 day #BiH
A video on YouTube posted by Cyber Media Technology titled "We want JMBG!" summarizes the first days of the #JMBG protests:
The following day, protests stopped briefly in Sarajevo and the Parliament building was no longer blocked by citizens standing guard out front.
But those involved in the protests created the website JMBG for everyone! with this message:
We are the citizens of this country - parents with children, university students, housewives, workers, the unemployed, pensioners, regardless of ethnic or religious groups, or any other status, so it is in our common interest that the rights of every person be respected, those of children above all.
We address all male and female citizens who wish to live in a state in which politicians do their jobs and complete their legal obligations.
A state in which national and partisan interests are secondary and the dignified and safe lives of citizens are primary.
The website also details the demands of citizens regarding legislature related to Unique Master Citizen Numbers and the creation of a fund for the treatment of threatened categories of the population.
Even though baby Belmina's parents eventually managed to get her across the border for treatment, the death of one-month-old Berina Hamidović due to this bureaucratic obstruction to her medical treatment, as Bosnian news outlets reported , further fueled protests.
Citizens throughout the region paid their respects to the little girl, while the story shook with tremendous strength and speed Berinda's birth country of Bosnia-Herzegovina and neighboring Serbia where she died.
From that moment on, the situation escalated quickly: from minute to minute on social networks, web portals and blogs, bitter citizens organized for protests, united and calling for support anywhere they could get it.
#JMBG is among the first to show the power of the new Facebook hashtag feature, while the JMBG fan page already has close to 23,000 fans on this social network.
The protests in Sarajevo continue, now under the name "Babylution" - a peaceful revolution that managed to bring over 10,000 people into the streets on June 18 with the support of public figures and musicians from the former Yugoslav republics who have expressed their grief and revolt.
Citizens are invited to attend the peaceful protests every day beginning at noon until demands are met.
Protesters in front of Parliament.
Photo by Almir Panjeta, courtesy of "JMBG za sve" Facebook fan page.
Zoja BB (@skejtas) on Twitter shared a picture of a gathered crowd: @skejtas: #JMBG protest today was huge. Hope 'they' feel the pressure... pic.twitter.com/NrHljS4qaS
Protester Davor Stanković (@Dastko) described the evening: @Dastko: A night to remember.
Without a stain or any minor problem.
I am tired, but I would stay with these people as long as necessary.
The fight continues! #jmbg
Editor Nenad Memić (@NenadMemic) added to the description:
@NenadMemic: Around 10,000 people at a protest concert for #JMBG in #Sarajevo tonight!
Spread the good vibe! :) pic.twitter.com/jrqHI2VEfT
Once an identification number, #JMBG has now become a hashtag, a meme, and a call for revolution in the countries of the former Yugoslavia.
Politicians have been given a deadline until June 30 to pass the law and create a solidarity fund for those who need medical treatment.
Should Bosnia's Parliament fail to meet this deadline, citizens have vowed, among other actions, to organize the first Facebook hashmob , a novel concept described as a hashtag-driven flashmob.
Until then, the "Babylution" continues.
Syria: Old Homs Under Siege for a Year · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protests
This month marks the first anniversary of the siege of the old city of Homs, often described as the capital of the Syrian Revolution.
Homs, one of the first revolutionary Syrian cities to revolt against the tyranny of Bashar Al Assad, along with 14 neighborhoods and districts of the old city, including Baba Amr, Bab Sbaa, Khalidiya and Deir Balba, has been subjected to bombardment by the Syrian regime, shelling and raids for more than two years, making the daily survival even harder as food and medical supplies dwindle.
Homs...city under siegeby abdulrahman-romano
In November 2012, Global Voices Online ran a post entitled Homs, A Revolutionary Syrian City in Ruins.
The "siege" of the 14 neighborhoods in Homs is a special case - and is not similar to other Syrian cities.
It is a reminder of the siege of Gaza.
However, in Homs there are no secret tunnels to smuggle basic supplies, medical aid and injured and sick people.
In Homs, a few thousand people are trapped in an area where there were 400,000 people residing. jeydt23 reported on Storify:
What is being called the Siege of Homs is arguably the most intense war zone in all of Syria at the moment.
The siege has been going on for months with the death tolls on both sides of the conflict adding up daily.
Below are pictures, tweets, and videos of the people striving to survive.
Syrian activists posted this video on the Facebook page of Break the siege of Homs on June 6, 2013, revealing the destruction of the city.
The blog Greater Syria posted a heart-breaking story under the title Yasin and Maryam Sabbagh…End the Siege on Homs, which describes the murder of a brother and sister (Yassin and Maryam) who were killed by a mortar bomb, fired by the regime’s forces in pro-regime districts, while playing outside their home.
A video of their martyrdom with an emotional comment said:
A short while ago, a piece of news stabbed my heart hard and petrified my eyes in disbelief.
Maryam and Yassin Sabbagh drawing what their life has been limited to: mortars, shelling, darkness, fear, and destruction; deprived from education, from schools, from having friends and neighbours to play with, from enjoying the blessings of life like world’s children, from food and sanitary water, from electricity, from everything..
Break the siege of Homs.
Source Facebook page
On his Facebook page, Yazan Homsi calls upon Syrians to support the revolution and not let the martyrs down.
He posted a letter written by an activist who reminded all Syrian activists of their pledge to protect the revolution until it achieves its goals:
A reproach from a martyr for everyone not living up to his duty...
Written Date 09/06/2013 Homs - the besieged area
Martyrdom Date 10/06/2013 Homs - the besieged area
This post is part of our special coverage Syria Protests
Royal Abdications: Netherlands, Belgium, Will Spain be Next? · Global Voices
"I'd be failing to my duties and my own conception of the royal function if I'd wish to keep on exercising whatever the cost, without being completely fit to assume my role."
Those were the words used by Albert II, King of the Belgians, to announce on Tuesday July 3, 2013 his intention to abdicate —as Queen Beatrix of Netherlands did last April— in favour of his 53-year old son Philippe, due to his age and delicate health.
In fact, King Albert will be 80 years old in 2014, as he said in his speech , an age "never reached by my predecessors on the exercise of their function," and has undergone multiple surgical procedures , among them, a quadruple coronary bypass on April 2000.
King Albert and Paola of Belgium, during vacations.
Photo by forum Cotilleando.
The background well-known to everybody, however, is a monarchy punised by scandals and very much needed of an urgent renovation.
Delphine Boël, King Albert's illegitimate daughter, filed last June 17 before a Brussels court a paternity test , bringing to bear once again a case where the Belgian Royal House has shown an attitude seen by much as anachronisitic .
Belgian people haven't forgotten that in 2007, Prince Lorenz, the king's youngest child, was involved in a embezzlement case of Navy funds , part of which were used to furnish his new house, or his non-authorized trip to Republic of the Congo , that almost caused him to lose his official assignement.
But what seemed to be the last straw has been the last tax scandal, taken on by his sister in law Fabiola.
Fabiola, of Spanish origin, is the widow of King Baudouin I, Albert's brother and his predecessor in the throne, who died suddenly in 1993.
Widow Queen Fabiola set up a private foundation aiming that, upon her death, her heirs coud elude 70% of succession taxes.
Apparently, the official amount perceived from public funds was included in this foundation, thus leading the Belgian government to reduce that amount.
Left, Prince Lorenz of Belgium with his son. Right, widow Queen Fabiola.
Photos from the blog The Royalty Chronicles and the forum Noblesse et Royautés.
The Belgian monarchy is one of the few unifying issues in a relatively new country (less than 200 years) where the communities of majority, Flemish and Walloon, grow apart day by day due to Flanders independence aspirations .
Under these circumstances, doubts about Prince Philippe's leadership skills intensify.
On September 28, 2012, Belgian paper Le Soir published an interview with Martin Buxant , journalist and author of the book "Belgium, a King Without a Country."
When asked if Prince Philippe is ready to become king, he answered:
(…) the almost forty political, economic, cultural and diplomatic responsibles I've talked to great doubts about Philippe's leadership skills to assume Albert's succession in the short term. (...)
We have to be clear: no, he is not ready!
Or as Everett Rummage said on Twitter:
Philippe and Mathilde, future kings of Belgium, with their eldest daughter Elisabeth.
Photo by blog Royalty Online
@EverettRummage: no one I knew in Belgium thought much of the King, but consensus was his son is an even bigger idiot.
From France, Marjorie shared her revolutionary ideas:
@AdriVidales : It seems that King of Belgium will abdicate due to tax offenses by relatives and "women troubles."
It's kind of hard to me not to make comparisons... @obdriftwood : The king abdicates because of a financial scandal, and another adultery one.
The King of Belgium, just don't jump beforehand.
@GSugranyes : -Dad, dad, the King of Bel...
-WHY DON'T YOU SHUT UP??
"The king of Belgium will abdicate on July 21l": http://ara.cat/_38923284 Other Twitter users, as Morenatti, implied some irritation:
Others think the change should be deeper, as the comment made by trilobites in an article appeared on El País : European monarchies should be aware they have to stop being a parasite of their states. To abdicate and leave for those tax havens they so often visit.
Croatia Joins European Union Amid Cheers, Skepticism, Apathy · Global Voices
After nine years of waiting, Croatia has joined the European Union as its 28th member state.
But response to the Balkan state's entry on July 1, 2013 appeared to be lukewarm, with the majority of positive online commentary coming from the country's media and politicians.
Few Croats celebrated on social media, with many more meeting the date with little to no mention, a change from the weeks leading up to Croatia joining the EU when lively online conversations treated the EU prospect with sarcasm and skepticism.
Croatia enters the EU with one of the lowest ranked GDP's of the bloc, with the country's GDP per capita amounting to 61 percent of the average GDP per capita in the other 27 member states, just above Romania with 49 percent and Bulgaria with 47 percent, according to data from Eurostat.
The country as joins the union with the third highest unemployment rate of any member state, which was 18.1 percent in April 2013 compared with the EU average of 11 percent.
On Facebook, the sentiment among Croats was seen by following the hashtags #Hrvatska and #CroatiaEU.
Facebook pages such as Occupy Croatia and Anonymous Croatia shared a photo from Zagreb in which a crowd of people push each other to receive gift packages of food from European food retailer Lidl, as part of the celebration of Croatia's accession into the union.
There was no euphoria to be felt among users on Twitter.
Official statements about the celebration and protocol could be seen, as well as debates as to whether or not this would bring positive change to Croatia's economy and social matters.
But there were very few affirmative comments or images.
The vast majority of tweets under hashtags #Hrvatska and #CroatiaEU were from news outlets and messages from other European citizens welcoming Croatia to the union.
After celebrating last night and counting down the minutes to their official entry into the EU, Croats seem to be a little quieter on social networks today.
In the days prior to Croatia's entry, many Twitter users seemed apprehensive of the event and upcoming celebrations.
Twitter user Jack Burton Jr (@JackBurtonJr) wrote:
This is not a German slap to Croatia, it's a Croatian slap to democracy! - članak -
Regardless, the country's politicians celebrated the entry into the EU online.
Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Neven Mimica (@MimicaEU) said this on his brand new Twitter account:
@MimicaEU: Croatia is in the European Union.
I am proud to be a Croat and a European NM #CroatiaEU
@DiePresse_Pol: Welcome Croatia http://bit.ly/17ls2sQ
Twitter user Darko Horvatić (@komarac_) sarcastically wrote:
@komarac_: Auntie EU is here, last one to hide is a rotten egg...
So far, a group of netizens from Poland were some of the most cheerful and original in wishing Croatian citizens a warm welcome on a special webpage set up just for this occasion that says "Hrvatska welcome to .EU".
Some Croatian citizens, however, didn't seem so thrilled, like Twitter user Asteroid B612 (@marina_b612):
@marina_b612: I differentiate citizens of the EU from the others by the fact that I understand what the others are saying...
France Sees Shades of its Revolutionary Past in Turkey's Revolt · Global Voices
The recent unrest in Turkey has left eight dead and more than 4,000 injured as well as exposed political divides and ineptitudes in the country that straddles Europe and Asia.
But the consequences of the massive protests, which grew from a movement to stop the destruction of Istanbul's Gezi Park for a redevelopment project in Taksim Square, have extended far beyond the borders of Turkey.
Members of the European Union, led by Germany, have used these clashes as an excuse to postpone negotiations on Turkey's entry into the European Union from late June until autumn.
The website Cameroonvoice specified:
The Chancellor Angela Merkel declared last week that the events in Turkey do not correspond to "European ideas of freedom of assembly and expression."
At the same time, the events in Turkey seem to have generated questions about identity in France and throughout Europe tied to the prospect of Turkey's entry into the European Union.
The French are asking themselves variations of, "Do we share the same values?"
Erdogan: The demonstrations are Twitter's fault, by khalid Albaih on Flickr, CC by-nc-sa/2.0 Not so different? Many French media outlets have based their analyses of the EU matter on the events of June in Turkey, trying out a number of different analogies.
As if this large neighbour, who might soon become part of the family, and its revolts offered the French a mix of complete exoticism and familiar reality.
As Henri Goldman writes on his blog :
Everywhere, Taksim is being compared to Tahir, the Turkish spring to the Arab spring.
In the images making the rounds, we see the same social groups - students, educated middle classes... - leading the field.
They feed their ambitions with the cosmopolitan cultural kit spread over the Internet and which now forms the stock ideas of the "fashionable" schools of thought in societies in transition.
The means of mobilisation brings them together too: slogans begun on the Internet which spring up in networks without headquarters, where any instructions are repeated so long as they correspond to expectations, no matter who starts them.
Others, particularly in France, have seen the protest as a new "May '68", referring to the Paris social revolution of 1968, sometimes in a desire to identify with the protesters.
Chems Eddine Chitour's blog does just that:
Western media outlets thought and think that the last 'domino' was going to fall.
They have presented this anger as that of an ultra-secular Turkey, fed up with the AKP, and the analogy with Tahrir Square and the doing away with Arab tyrants is pushed to its limits.
Not once has the analogy been drawn with May 1968 in Europe, at the end of the so-called golden years, built on the sweat of immigrants.
When Daniel Cohn-Bendit and his fellow students took action against De Gaulle's government, it was not because they were starving, like most of the uprisings in Arab countries, but to shake up an old order by not allowing it to suppress them...
The European Parliament officially condemned the brutal repression of the demonstration.
But Ex-Expat commented on a France 24 article which describes the ongoing demonstration:
The only Europeans in Turkey are those in Taksim Square and their supporters!
A video showing the protesters in Taksim Square singing "Do you hear the people sing?" taken from the musical Les Misérables about the Paris uprising of 1832, demonstrates the link between the protesters and Europe:
From Gezi Park to Turkey's EU integration
"Taksim ist überall!" - "Taksim is everywhere!"
Hamburg, Germany, 8 June, 2013. By Rasande Tyskar on Flickr, CC BY-NC 2.0
The "European values" Angela Merkel spoke of are the values picked up by online media outlets, sliding almost systematically from the subject of the Gezi and Taksim demonstrations to that of Turkey's integration into the EU.
Franck Proust , a member of the European Parliament for the French UMP Party, reiterated the position of the French right-wing.
Coralie Morallet explains on the regional news website Objectif Gard (Southern France): A partnership agreement: yes, but accession to Europe: no!
Turkey is not European.
We don't share the same culture, nor the same Judeo-Christian roots, nor the same political aspirations.
A comment from Joël Toussaint responded:
Europe shares Judeo-Christian roots which were sown... in Turkey!
The first Council of Nicea was in 325, and the first Council of Constantinople took place in 381. (...)
Arrogance is rooted in ignorance.
Mr. Proust jumps feet first into the pretext given by Erdogan, and ends up putting his foot in it.
He is conflating the Turkish people with their leaders.
Political grandstanding in all of its glory!
The majority of comments were very pessimistic as to the outcome of the integration process:
(...)
Insisting on europeanising the worthy successor of the Ottoman Empire is an illusion, an idyllic vision of the future of the European Union.
Just because 5 percent of the population adhere to the ideas and values of the EU doesn't means that 95 percent of Anatolians will do so. Just because Constantinople has become Ankara, it doesn't means that the mentality of the Ottoman leaders - whether Kemalist or (moderate?) Islamist - has changed.
But there are some who turn the spotlight on the values shared with the protesters themselves across European borders: against police violence, arbitrary detention of protesters and journalists, and for freedom of expression and freedom of assembly.
As Cameroonvoice affirmed:
"From Azerbaijan to Senegal, everyone sympathizes with the protesters in Taksim Square, not with Erdogan", concludes Hakan Günes, Professor of Political Science at the University of Marmara.
And the more that Turkey's Prime Minister's Recep Tayyip Erdoğan turns to conspiracy theories to denounce the influence of the European Union, Western media, social networks (especially Twitter), the more he risks isolating himself on the world stage.
It is ironic, then, that it it is precisely with regards to the fear of the other and conspiracy theories that Sema Kaygusuz, a Turkish writer , sees similarities between Turkish and American societies:
Turkey is a country where everyone fears the other.
Kemalists fear Islamists, Islamists fear secularists, women fear men, children fear adults...
It's the American mentality: we are always under threat.
Mohamed Morsi, the Muslim Brotherhood senior member, is no longer the president of Egypt.
Morsi's one-year reign was cut short, after massive protests across Egypt calling for him to resign started on June 30.
Head of the Egyptian Armed Forces General Abdel Fattah Al Sisi said in an announcement broadcast live minutes ago that the Chief Justice of the Constitutional Court will be the new interim president and that a technocrat national government will be formed.
Al Sisi also announced that the Egyptian constitution has been suspended and that preparations will be made for both presidential and parliamentary elections.
Many are happy to see the end of the Muslim Brotherhood's days at the helm of Egyptian politics.
Rasha Abdulla states:
Al Sisi announcing the end of Morsi's rule.
Screen grab from CNN International
@RashaAbdulla: EGYPT BRINGS ABOUT THE DOWNFALL OF THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
HISTORY IN THE MAKING.
Egyptian Hossam Eid exclaims :
@EidH: There will be no Brotherhood again
And on the suspension of the constitution, blogger Eman AbdElRahman sarcastically says:
@LastoAdri: To the garbage of history, the greatest constitution of the world
Reporting from Tahrir Square, the epicentre of the Egyptian revolution in downtown Cairo, reports:
@Beltrew: I have never seen anything like this before: Beladi beladi beladi song filters through roar of crowd & explosion of fireworks #Egypt
On the flip side of the coin, the announcement angered the pro-Morsi.
Mosa'ab Elshamy reports:
@mosaabrizing: So much anger at MB sit-in.
Hearing distant gunshots.
Arabs too closely followed the unfolding events in Egypt.
Yemeni Abdulkader Alguneid tweets:
@alguneid: #Egypt Army is sacking Morsi, right now
Bahraini Salma exclaims: @salmasays: Egypt is beautiful Mansoor Al-Jamri, also from Bahrain, notes:
@MANSOOR_ALJAMRi: Egyptians correct the path and end the hijacking of the Arab Spring.
Long live Egypt!
And Moroccan Ahmed had a different view:
@blafrancia: Egypt is on its way to become Pakistan.
Election and coup.
The result is a total disbelief in democracy and religious and political extremism
Egypt says: "It is NOT a Coup" · Global Voices
This post is a part of our Special Coverage Egyptians Overthrow Morsi
The US meddling in Egyptian affairs - and the coverage of news networks, particularly CNN, of the political developments in Egypt - came under fire last night.
The ousting of former Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi after a year in office ushered celebrations across the country, as well as a bout of violence between pro- and anti-Morsi supporters.
While Morsi supporters say that the removal of Morsi from power was a military coup, the anti-Morsi camp insists it was the will of the people, with the support of the powerful military establishment that has made the ousting possible.
Many also are angry over what they call as the US meddling in Egyptian Affairs.
They say that the "provocative statement" by US president Barak Obama ignored the masses who took the streets to reclaim their freedom and waved the aid card instead.
The US statement, issued on July 3, reads:
The United States is monitoring the very fluid situation in Egypt, and we believe that ultimately the future of Egypt can only be determined by the Egyptian people.
Nevertheless, we are deeply concerned by the decision of the Egyptian Armed Forces to remove President Morsy and suspend the Egyptian constitution.
I now call on the Egyptian military to move quickly and responsibly to return full authority back to a democratically elected civilian government as soon as possible through an inclusive and transparent process, and to avoid any arbitrary arrests of President Morsy and his supporters.
Given today’s developments, I have also directed the relevant departments and agencies to review the implications under U.S. law for our assistance to the Government of Egypt.
Following this reaction, CNN, which was covering the developments live, started what many netizens call "a vapid campaign to support the ousted Muslim Brotherhood President and his legitimacy by describing the pro-Morsi rallies as "peaceful", calling the popular demand a "coup" and denouncing the military action against the "peaceful" MB protestors:
@:CNN Violence erupts as Morsy supporters denounce coup http://on.cnn.com/11nnpPL
The new logo of the CNN - Photo Posted by ‏@aelsadek
Sadek's new logo, for CNN, includes the Muslim Brotherhood emblem.
The writing in Arabic is their motto : Arm Yourself.
Wael responded with pictures to their twisted facts:
@WilloEgy 33 million civilians in the streets urging #Morsi to step down and you still call it military coup?
You are deliberately twisting facts.
While Ahmed Sabry said:
In her post, entitled June 30: The Real Deal, Yusra Badr says the Muslim Brotherhood's one-year rule has deprived the Egyptian Nation of its long awaited celebrations and turned them into funerals.
I am not a political activist, I am not a reporter and I am not an expert analyst, but I am one of the millions of Egyptians who wanted Morsi out of their presidential palace.
I am also one of the millions whose hearts are breaking at being deprived of the victory we achieved on June 30th by having the truth distorted and confusing the world into looking down at us.
She then concludes:
So here you have it, in very simple words, perhaps even naive, because I am writing this in the middle of the night and did not use any references.
But references are unnecessary for me because I have been living in this nightmare for a year, and I am proud of what we have done on June 30 and of the support of our military.
That’s it; the real deal.
This is not a coup, this is the will of the nation coming to life in an unconventional manner
Yemen, Beyond the Headlines · Global Voices
Yemen is a country in the southern part of the Arabian Peninsula rich in culture, heritage, and history, with an extremely friendly and hospitable people.
But that doesn't make the news.
The country is often misrepresented in Western media coverage, magnifying the country's negative aspects.
A country of 24 million people of many different backgrounds "has been reduced to Al-Qaeda...wars, poverty, Qat, tribalism, or the ancestral home of Osama Bin Laden," writes blogger Atiaf Alwazir (@womanfromyemen) in her post "The Flawed Media Narrative on Yemen":
Today’s journalism on Yemen is no longer about getting the facts right, or inspiring people to think independently, it is about who can write the most sensationalized story on the country – no matter how many times it has already been told – because that is what sells.
But some Yemenis are trying to change that.
Using film, photography, blogging, and social media, they want the world to see Yemen for its rich art, unique architecture, and the breath-taking landscapes and scenery that the country has to offer.
A panoramic view capturing Yemen's unique architecture by photographer Mohammed Alnahdi.
Getting to know Yemen
Yemen is the one of the oldest civilizations in the world, with its history dating back to the first millennium B.C. It was commonly known as Arabia Felix, meaning Fortunate Arabia or Hapy Arabia.
In fact, four of the world's heritage sites are in Yemen.
First, is the old capital itself, Sanaa.
One of the oldest inhabited cities in the world, it boasts more than 103 mosques, 14 hammams (baths) and more than 6,000 multi-story mud houses with unique architecture, featuring spectacular decorated facades adorned with stained glass windows.
Second is Shibam, also known as the "Manhattan of the desert", which is home to the oldest skyscrapers in the world — 500 mud-brick houses which are eleven stories high.
Shibam, the Manhattan of the desert, by photographer Michail Vorobyev.
Third is the island of Socotra, the largest member of an archipelago site, important for its biodiversity and distinct flora and fauna.
According to UNESCO, "37% of Socotra’s 825 plant species, 90% of its reptile species, and 95% of its land snail species do not occur anywhere else in the world."
The last is the picturesque coastal town of Zabid, with its narrow alleyways and burnt brick buildings.
Beyond the media's portrayal
Various online efforts are being made to combat the media's narrow view of Yemen.
One of my most popular blog posts entitled "Yemen... unraveled facts about my beautiful homeland" highlights many hidden facts about Yemen, such as it being the source of one of the finest and most expensive honey in the world - the "Doani honey" - and one of the first countries to introduce coffee to Europe by exporting its own coffee brand out of the port of Mocha.
Fahd Aqlan, a 35-year-old Yemeni man residing in Cairo, Egypt, started a Facebook page called So you think you've seen Yemen? to counter misconceptions and show the world another aspect of Yemen beyond what is portrayed in news headlines.
Summer Nasser, a Yemeni activist and blogger based in New York, started another Facebook page entitled The People of Yemen, which as she describes is a "photo project which brings the life of Yemen, one picture at a time to it's audience across the world."
Others have spoken out in support of the country.
Yemen-based journalist Adam Baron said in his Drones-Ad-Hoc hearing testimony:
Yemenis, as a rule, are nearly unfathomably friendly and welcoming.
On Twitter, Word Press Award winner and Spanish photojournalist Samuel Aranda (@Samuel_Aranda_) put in a good word for country as a foreigner:
Sampling Yemen's cuisine
Yemeni food is often accompanied by homemade bread and cooked in stoneware.
This photo show's a typical breakfast or dinner made of bread, fava beans, and liver accompanied by tea with milk and cardamon:
A typical Yemeni breakfast or dinner.
Photo courtesy "So you think you've seen Yemen?" Facebook page.
Bint El Sahn is a very popular and traditional Yemeni dish.
Literally translated to English, it means "daughter of the plate."
It is made of many layers of dough, baked and served with a drizzle of honey on top.
It is consumed during the meal as a main dish, not a desert.
The famous Bint El Sahn.
Photograph by Hend Abdullah
Yemeni Kitchen is a great blog for an introduction to the country's cuisine.
The blog, as described by the authors, "focuses on Yemeni Food with a historical twist."
Not only does it provide a step-by-step recipe of the dishes it introduces, but it also describes the history behind them as well.
Yemeni music and dance
Art, photography, and landscapes
More breath-taking photos of Yemen can be seen through the Facebook pages of photographers Ameen Al-Ghabri and Abu Malik:
A beautiful shot of the old city of Sanaa through the lens of Ameen Alghabri.
A selection of photos of the portal city of Aden by Ameen Alghabri.
A breath taking view of the city of Ibb seen from a cliff.Photo by Abu Malik.
Some of the most famous Yemeni painters are Lamia Al-Kibsi, Fouad Al-Foutaih and Mazher Nizar, and more of his work can be viewed here and here.
Oil painting by Fouad Al Foutaih, from the private collection of the author of this post, Noon Arabia.
For an alternative to Western media, follow local cultural and social stories through Yemen's own media, such as The Yemen Times and La Voix du Yemen.
Bosnian Lawmakers Fail to Meet 'Babylution' Protest Demands · Global Voices
Bosnia-Herzegovina's parliament has missed the July 1 deadline set by angry protesters demanding members fix a lapse in the country's law that is preventing newborns from being given an identity number and, by extension, travel papers and healthcare.
For more than a month, citizens have been protesting in front of their national parliament, requesting that urgent amendments be made to legislation related to Unique Master Citizen Numbers, abbreviated JMBG.
The protests, which have been dubbed the "Babylution", took off when a gravely ill three-month-old girl died while waiting to receive this unique identity number so that she could receive treatment and surgery abroad.
Outrage against this denial of basic human rights ensued across several Balkan states after the tragic event and crossed ethnic divides in the region.
The protesters had given the legislative body a July 1, 2013 deadline to remedy the lapse in the ID number law, which expired in February.
On July 1, as Croatia celebrated its official entry into the European Union, thousands of people gathered in the capital Sarajevo before the parliament building to send their government representatives a clear message - "You are fired!" - and inform the international community of the situation in an open letter.
"Babylution" cover photo being distributed across social networks: "01.07.
Dismissal"; image courtesy of Babylution Facebook fan page.
Protests were also held across the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina, in Mostar, Tuzla, Zenica, Prijedor, Bugojn and other cities and towns.
Blogger Tom Simpson was among those who joined the "Babylution" online:
In the thrilling and agonizing meantime, protestors will have to muster all the courage, patience, and creativity they can.
For its part, the rest of the world needs to keep putting pressure on Bosnian politicians to do the right thing: secure basic human rights and freedoms for all citizens of BiH.
The Bosnian struggle is a deeply human one, and the world should stand with Bosnians and Herzegovinians, as they stand up for themselves, choose love, and dare to hope.
In the meantime, the Bosnian-Herzegovinian parliament held a session , during and after which nothing changed.
During the session, the #JMBG protests were labeled as "a hostage crisis" and the issues were devolved into accusations between the political parties.
Solutions to issues that might benefit the citizens of Bosnia-Herzegovina never came as a point of order.
Lawmakers who voiced any concern over this were far and few between, among them member of parliament Anto Domazet:
Today's debate about security issues demonstrates that the focus of members of parliament is on the very political matters that provoked the delay in procedure and the crisis situation.
"However, we must ask ourselves what is the great matter that will happen in the political life of Bosnia-Herzegovina?
It is evident that the citizens want political pluralism, not to have leaders or parties decide on matters, but that they themselves also .
This is something we will have to get used to," emphasized.
On social networks, the anger hasn't died down.
Political science student Olivier Gonner (@igonnerclast) wrote:
@EditaGorinjac: Representation.
In #ParlamentBiH they are calling criticism of their work mudslinging.
They say it is unseen anywhere in the world.
I'm not sure which world they're talking about. #jmbg
Another user on Twitter, Mahir Vražalić (@Mahir_Vrazalic), noticed:
@Mahir_Vrazalic: So in Parliament they're discussing everything except #JMBG....
Edis Jasarevic (@EdisPG), a racing commentator, added sarcastically:
@EdisPG: We ask that only smooth jazz music be played in parliament, so that members of parliament don't feel pressured, and anti-stress massages at least 2x a day #jmbg
Artists Capture a Bloody Ramadan in Syria · Global Voices
Mubarak, (blessed) kareem (generous) or peaceful, are the usual words that come to mind during Ramadan, the Islamic month of fasting when families and communities joyfully come together to pray and break their daily fasts.
But for artists depicting the holy month in Syria - blood, violence and helplessness are the only words that seem to fit.
Since protests first began in March 2011 during the Arab Spring, Ramadan in Syria has not been mubarak, or kareem, and especially not peaceful.
What is really going on in Syria?
Nobody can really tell.
But what everyone can see are the countless people being killed, dozens kidnapped and hundreds forced to flee their homes everyday.
Ramadan in Syria according to Osama Hajjaj
The UN recently said that the Syrian conflict is “drastically deteriorating” with up to 5,000 people dying every month.
And it seems Ramadan this year will be no different than any other month.
It might even be worse.
Both camps seem to have turned a deaf ear to United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon's plea to stop violence.
To add insult to injury, food and medicine prices are soaring.
According to The Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA):
@Sana_English: #Syria's Health Minister: Decision to raise medicine prices intended to preserve medicine security
Homs is under siege, so is Aleppo and many other cities across the war-torn country.
Syrian Amal Hanano summarizes the situation in one of her tweets:
@AmalHanano: On the 1st day of Ramadan, #Aleppo is starving.
Dollar is up to 300 Syrian Pounds.
No food or medicine to be found. #Syria
Even religious buildings have not been spared.
@GotFreedomSY: A Mosque I could once see from our balcony in Syria is now burning to ruins.
One of many Mosques the Assad regime is destroying in Ramadan.
Syrian artists also to depict the situation through many works of art, available online.
Here's how Tammam Azzam draws the famous Ramadan Crescent or moon:
Ramadan Kareem from Tammam Azzam
And here's sad Suhoor (the meal people have before they start their fast at dawn) by artist Hicham Chemali posted on "Syrian Revolution Caricature" Facebook Page:
There is no one left to wake up for suhoor (meal at sunrise before the daily fast) in Syria
Maher Abul Husn sees a Ramadan Hazeen (Sad) in Syria.
A Ramadan Crescent dripping blood alongside a full moon made of the names of Syrian towns.
Photo posted on Art and Freedom Facebook Page.
See how Bashar is distributing Food for the Iftar.
During the month of Ramadan cannons are fired to indicate to people the time to break their fast and have their meal.
In this caricature, posted on Basma Souria Page (Syrian Fingerprint), Bashar is seen bombing Syrian towns and cities
From Jordan, caricaturist Osama Hajjaj also sympathizes with the plight of his Syrian neighbors and brothers.
But despite everything, Syrians still resort to humor, even if it is black, to carry on with their lives.
This photo is going viral on Twitter and on Facebook.
We apologize this year to Arabs for not broadcasting "Bab Al Hara" series (one of the popular series in the Arab world, usually aired during Ramadan) because Bashar hasn't left any Hara (Neighbourhood) All photographs in this post are used with the permission of the artists.
Morsi Supporters Face-off with Anti-Morsi Protestors across Egypt · Global Voices
The much anticipated face-off between Muslim Brotherhood supporters and protesters who called for the ousting of former Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi took place today .
The drama unfolded live on television, and was broadcast by local and international channels.
At least 17 people were killed and more than 400 protesters injured in clashes across Egypt today, which many on social media described as "expected" and "surreal."
Ayman Mohyeldin, Foreign Correspondent for NBC News based in Egypt, tweets:
@AymanM: Thousands of pro-morsi protestors moving across October 6 bridge towards tahrir.
Military helicopter flying above pic.twitter.com/SMbqFvQKAo
The frontline of clashes on the Nile corniche.
Photograph shared by @SherineT on Twitter
Al Jazeera correspondent in Cairo Sherine Tadros adds:
@SherineT: Total mayhem here at Maspero.
Thousands against thousands.
Street battles.
People injured lying on the ground
Maspero is the Egyptian state television and radio building in midtown Cairo, and is a few metres away from Tahrir Square, where anti-Morsi protestors are continuing to celebrate Morsi's ouster.
And Andy Carvin notes:
@acarvin: Surreal footage on aje now - over a dozen guys throwing rocks, each lit up by a green laser to be target by opposing side
All this was inside Cairo alone.
Outside Cairo, clashes were also reported.
Mostafa Hussein writes:
@moftasa: Street wars still going on in Alexandria.
Live coverage on Al Arabiya.
Thousands of pro-Morsi protestors cross the October 6 bridge earlier today.
Photograph shared by @AymanM on Twitter
Mohamed Fadel Fahmy adds:
@Repent11: A journalist in Suez just called me saying intense clashes between army and pro-Morsi protesters.
Gunshots and many injuries.
And Ahmed Mwaheb, from Ismailia, asks :
@AhmedMwaheb: Where is the army?
There is a street war in Ismailia and the Brotherhood have all sorts of weapons
The clashes, expected and feared by many, happen two days after Morsi, the Muslim Brotherhood candidate who became president a year ago, was ousted by the military following massive protests calling for his resignation and an end of the brotherhood's rule of Egypt.
Many point fingers at the military, the old regime and the Muslim Brotherhood for the clashes.
Philip Rizk notes:
@tabulagaza: Military/ old regime + brotherhood r to blame for the sick gun battles near tahrir.
The blood spilled will dissolve their brotherhood and they will be banished from political life
The clashes continue at the time of filing this post.
Italian Appeals Court Upholds Guilty Verdict in Historic Eternit Asbestos Case · Global Voices
An appeals court in Turin, Italy has affirmed a previous court's landmark ruling finding Swiss billionaire Stephan Schmidheiny , former owner of cement manufacturer Swiss Eternit Group, responsible for nearly 3,000 asbestos-related deaths. The court, presided over by Alberto Oggè, even upped the damages on June 3, 2013 that Schmidheiny must pay to the victims and local authorities.
There should have been two defendants, but the very day that the first conviction was handed down, the other defendant, the Belgian Baron Louis De Cartier De Marchienne , died aged 92 - a matter of days before the end of the appeal process.
For this reason, the court declared his case settled.
Many sources have called this the biggest trial for environmental damage in the history of Europe with more than 2,890 injured parties - both workers and citizens - of whom more than 2,000 have died or are suffering from serious illnesses.
Biagio Chiariello wrote on the community blog fanpage.it:
The appeal verdict was eagerly awaited by at least 500 people, who arrived on seven buses.
There are about 6,000 offended parties from family members of workers who died due to tumours to citizens of the areas where the factories produced the asbestos fibres in Casale Monferrato, in the province of Alessandria, in Cavagnolo (Turin), Bagnoli (Naples) and Rubiera (Reggio Emilia).
The sentence extends the accused's responsibility to the victims of the last two factories, for which, instead of first time around, a limitation period was declared.
Schmidheiny was acquitted for the period from June '66 to '76 for not having committed the crime.
On the same blog fanpage.it, in another post, Antonio Palma provided details of the amount the Swiss billionaire will have to pay to the victims:
The most significant sum established by the panel of judges presided by Alessando Oggé is destined for the Council of Casale Monferrato in the province of Alessandria, one of the worst hit by the terrible environmental disaster caused by the asbestos multinational and where almost half of the victims live.
As agreed by the Eternit ruling, the local authorities will receive 30.9 million euros (41.2 million US dollars), which has risen from the 25 million (33.3 million US dollars) set out by the judgement of first instance, in line with the requests of the town's lawyers.
Every family member of the victims will instead receive damages for 30,000 euros (about 40,018 US dollars).
The author continued:
The Piedmont region will also receive substantial compensation for a total of 20 million euros (26.7 US dollars).
The Eternit ruling also established 100,000 euros (133,400 US dollars) for each union admitted as a civil party and 70,000 euros (93,400 US dollars) each to the two environmental organisations, WWF and Legambiente.
The only exception in terms of compensation in the Eternit ruling is that of Inail (Italian National Institution for Insurance against Accidents at Work). The Court did not recognise any right to compensation for Inail even if the institution had already begun a very expensive recovery operation with regards to the multinational.
Asbestos kills and causes serious illnesses in every corner of the world.
However, in many other parts of the world, the victims have not yet had the satisfaction of seeing the perpetrators brought to justice.
On scienze-naturali.it, Massimo Gigliotti wrote:
And although Italy has a law that bans the use of asbestos and Europe has banished Eternit, only 44 nations have banned it. There are countries where it is still used, such as Russia, Canada, China, India, Brasil and Thailand.
To avoid the problem, the USA has transferred the asbestos industry in Mexico where the workers are either not informed of the dangers or reassured; Canada produces and sells asbestos abroad while being careful of its use within their own borders.
Unfortunately, there is still some asbestos littered around the country: in schools, in homes or scattered in the environment.
Dario Scacciavento noted on aamterranuova.it
Even if the extraction and marketing of Eternit and asbestos was banned in 1992, experts in epidemics foresee a peak in cancer patients around 2020.
The ruling in Turin has given a colossal boost to the associations of victims, of family members and in general civil society all over the world to continue fighting against industrial pollution, particularly that caused by asbestos.
On the site articolo21.org, Santo Della Volpe wrote:
In fact associations against asbestos from France, Belgium, Switzerland, Brazil and other South American countries have gathered in Casale Monferrato to agree on the application of this sentence in their home countries, where Eternit and deadly asbestos fibres are not only in use but continue to be produced.
Before leaving Turin, victims' associations from France (ANDEVA), Belgium (ABEVA), the United Kingdom (AVSGF and others), the USA (ADAO), Brasil (ABREA), Spain (FEDAVICA), Australia (ADSA), Canada (CANSAV), Korea, India (OHSA and others), South Africa, Peru (APEVA) and Germany as well as Italy's AFEVA, issued a press release requesting that the United Nations include asbestos in their list of chemical products from the Rotterdam Convention that regulates the import and export of certain dangerous chemical products and pesticides.
In Spain, asbestosinthedock.ning.com announced :
On 10 and 11 June from 9:30 am at the Labour Court #5 of Seville (NOGA Building, Avenida de la Buhaira) the first collective proceeding of asbestos victims against the company URALITA will be held, a company that for over 60 years has produced fibre cement materials in this city, in particular in the district of Bellavista.
The thirst for profit must not override the worker's right to health.
As the prosecutor Raffaele Guariniello declared, the ruling represents "a tribute to life".
The Story Behind Morsi's [Fake] Arrest Video · Global Voices
Morsi was ousted today by the Egyptian military after serving as president for a year.
Millions gathered across Egypt from June 30, the first anniversary of his rule, to demand that he — and his Muslim Brotherhood — leave power.
Today, the Egyptian army named a new interim president, suspended the constitution and promised new presidential and parliamentary elections will be held soon.
This video, and the timing of his release which coincided with reports that Morsi was under house arrest, has made many confused.
Iyad El-Baghdadi notes:
@iyad_elbaghdadi: Reportedly #Morsi arrest video.
Someone is saying over & over "he should step out in handcuffs". http://bit.ly/12mCD28 #Egypt
@iyad_elbaghdadi: I don't understand the context of #Morsi arrest vid.
Some army officers, but what are civilians doing there? http://bit.ly/12mCD28 #Egypt
Journalist Jenan Moussa first shared the video link on Twitter and then removed it.
She explains:
@jenanmoussa: I am deleting the video of alleged arrest of Morsi.
Not confirmed at all.
Apologies.
And Egyptocracy tweets:
@Egyptocracy: There is an false video circulating now of alleged "#Morsi arrest", he was never arrested, he was under republican guard protection. #Egypt Meanwhile, Cairo-based Egyptian journalist Amira Howeidy notes: @amirahoweidy: Morsi under house arrest.
Not one single MB figure is accessible.
All religious channels switched off.
Islamists r silenced.
Egypt's "People's Revolution" in the Eyes of Russians · Global Voices
The protests that have rocked Turkey, Brazil and Bulgaria this summer have finally spilled into Egypt, where massive demonstrations against the Islamist policies of President Mohamed Morsi have led to a second revolution or a cynical military coup (depending on who you ask).
Morsi was ousted and arrested, the constitution suspended, and the liberal Mohamed ElBaradei has been appointed interim prime minister.
Morsi's supporters, many of them members of the Muslim Brotherhood, clashed with police and anti-Morsi protesters, leading to widespread civil unrest with at least 30 deaths and over 1000 injuries.
With the unrest showing no signs of abating, on July 7, 2013, Russian President Vladimir Putin warned that Egypt was on the road to civil war. A small rally heading to Tahrir square to join the protests against President Morsi. By Zeinab Mohamed CC 2.0
As with past protests in the region, Russians have been actively following the events in Egypt.
Many take a positive view of the army's actions in removing Morsi, or entirely elude references to the military, viewing the proceedings as a people's revolution.
For example, Kirill Goncharov , a Moscow student involved in youth politics, was particularly impressed with what he saw as the non-hierarchical nature of Morsi's removal, writing on his facebook :
The coolest thing about Egypt is that there was no "Coordinating Council of the Opposition " there.
People simply took power into their own hands, without any leaders.
This view was seen as naive by others.
One user replied laconically:
People in uniform simply took power into their own hands all right.
Alexander Ivanov , a self-identified Communist, was also in favor of what he referred to as "the revolution" and hit back at suggestions the army was not acting in the people's interests:
well in the Arab world, the army occupies a very important position.
In addition, it supports the common people.
We'll see what will happen.
Some Russian liberals like journalist Dmitri Bavyrin also had no problem with the removal of a democratically elected president, as long as that president was an Islamist.
Bavyrin bitingly argued that Islamism was antithetical to the childish "hipsters" who started the first revolution, but eventually lost control of the democratic process:
An Islamist won and started to work to the benefit of Islamists, who contradict the basic hipster understanding of democracy.
The hipsters once again took to the streets and that's where the military got sick of it all.
The military took away democracy… because you can either have democracy or ElBaradei, but not both at once.
I like the military.
The views of Bavyrin and Ivanov were echoed by Anton Kapshuk , a rock musician and Communist, who wished his "Egyptian comrades" success in their endeavor:
didn't work to improve the lives of the people.
The aims of the Revolution were not realized at that time.
Instead, the country began to be Islamicised. This brought about massive protests.
An Islamic constitution was adopted, which could in no way be called democratic.
It was obvious Morsi's days were numbered.
The main role in revolutions is often played by the military.
If the soldiers don't go over to the side of the uprising, the overthrow of the order is unlikely.
During the previous Revolution the deciding role was played by the military.
The same happened this time.
The overthrow is complete.
The Islamists were removed from power and many even arrested.
The military has promised new democratic elections.
Others were less optimistic.
Blogger Aleksandr Chernokozov believes that Morsi's removal was attributable to "the virus of revolution" that had taken hold in Egypt since Mubarak's ouster and that what was happening called to mind "the start of a civil war" .
Writing on his LiveJournal, Chernokozov warned:
The leaders of the "Muslim Brotherhood" have already been arrested.
There are reports that the list of those arrested reaches hundreds, and according to some, thousands of active participants in the movement.
The "Muslim Brotherhood" is seriously preparing itself for protest actions.
Indeed, the biggest one of these actions is already starting.
The most important factor here is that they're prepared to sacrifice their lives…
Twitter user Aleksandr Barbashov seemed to be one of the few RuNet bloggers to respect democratic institutions, tweeting
I don't like the Islamist Morsi either, but he was a LEGITIMATELY elected president!
This is a dangerous precedent for Egyptians to set for themselves. #Egypt
Morsi's removal by the military speaks to the failure of formal politics in Egypt.
Weak democratic structures, a highly polarized electorate and an entrenched military elite meant such an outcome was probably sadly unavoidable.
While Russia's hard-left opposition usually makes no secret that it views parliamentary democracy as a sham, the fact that many of Russia's self-professed liberals approve of such a coup speaks to the failure of a genuine liberal tradition in Russia.
Egyptians Want to Overthrow the Regime · Global Voices
Egyptians are marking the first anniversary of Mohamed Morsi's presidency with huge rallies across Egypt today , calling for him to leave office.
Anti-Morsi campaign Tamarrod, whose name translates to rebel, says it has so far gathered more than 22 million signatures from citizens, which call for early presidential elections.
According to Egyptian blogger Nermeen Edrees:
@NermeenEdrees: People are taking up from where they left off on Feb 2011 #Egypt
Wael Khalil clarifies :
@wael: The people want to overthrow the regime... seriously
On January 25, 2011, Egyptians protested against the 32-year rule of Hosni Mubarak.
Eighteen days later, Mubarak resigned.
During the interim period, Egypt was ruled by the Supreme Council for Armed Forces .
Following elections, Morsi, a Muslim Brotherhood candidate, filled Mubarak's shoes, becoming president on June 30, 2012.
Today, Egyptians take to the streets again calling for Morsi to step down and for an end to the Muslim Brotherhood rule of Egypt.
Egyptian protesters gather at Tahrir Square.
Photograph shared by @LamiaHassan on Twitter
Journalist Mohamed Abdelfattah reports:
@mfatta7: There seems to be demonstrations in villages and alleyways where people never protested before. #Egypt
Protesters have started gathering at Tahrir Square, the epi-centre of the Egyptian revolution in downtown Cairo, since yesterday.
In Cairo alone, several marches are being organised today, heading to both Tahrir Square and to the Presidential Palace.
Also, pro-Morsi marches and rallies have been held over the previous two days and continue today.
A fear many harbour is a clash between pro and anti-Morsi demonstrators, violence and bloodshed.
Tents put up at Tahrir Square last night in preparation for today's anti-Morsi protests in Egypt.
Photograph shared by @JanoCharbel on TwitterEgyptian blogger Zeinobia shares another concern:
The US department of State issued a travel warning for Egypt.I believe it is normal thing especially after the murder of the US citizen Andrew Pochter in Alexandria’s clashes yesterday.
The US marines have already been put on alert in Southern Europe so what happened in Benghazi won’t happen again in Cairo
You must know that there are calls by Ultra Radical Pro-Nationalists/Military/Nasserists for protesters not only to protest but to storm the US embassy.
Those calls results of the anti-American sentiments growing among the Non-Islamists because they believe that the Obama administration is biased to the MB.
US ambassador Anne Paterson is so much hated and many Egyptians consider her the American version of Lord Cromer.
I believe the MB would love to protesters storm the US embassy this happen so their political opponents as well the Egyptian army lose all the cards with Washington.
Morsi's first year in office has been a bad one for Egyptians, with fuel and electricity shortages, among many woes.
@Selnadeem: Most of people say that their cars have no fuel, they couldn't go work and decided to join the protest in #Tahrir. #Egypt #30_june
Egyptian activist and blogger Alaa Abd El Fattah shares the following note on Facebook :
Since my mother ridiculed me for the state of depression I was in and gave me a lesson in how, when the people take to the streets to uproot their rulers, then this should be the only important interest and that all the plans and conspiracies being made by opportunists do not matter, I have decided to switch to optimism.
Tomorrow will be better no matter what.
To unify the columns of revolutionaries, I would like us to agree on the following:
* To overthrow all those who torture and kill people, and humiliate them
* To overthrow all those who steal from people, destroy their homes, health and environment
* To overthrow all those who deny people their happiness, dreams and aspirations, whether through oppression, poverty or moral guardianship
* To overthrow all those who reconcile or cooperate with Zionists
* To overthrow all those whose decisions are based on American approval
* To overthrow all those who have authority without the approval of the people, and all those who rule against the approval of the people
* To overthrow all those who have helped any of those who have committed any of the crimes above from accountability
Many are keen to join the protests:
Donia Iskandar tweets :
@Donia_Iskandar: Everyone take a shower, drink tea or coffee, sit with your family for a while, pray, and come down to the street to protest against Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood
Others are giving protesters tips on how to remain secure online.
Lobna Darwish tweets:
@lobna: Switch off auto-update from your emails on your mobile phones when using open networks around the Palace and don't enter any passwords even if you are using https
@lobna: Do not send any information on the internet which you don't want the state security, the army, Morsi or your mother to know about when you are around the palace
And Bassem Sabry warns protesters not to eat or drink anything offered by strangers, after protesters in Alexandria reportedly got poisoned from drinking contaminated water handed out at a protest:
@Bassem_Sabry: Nobody should take food and water from strangers.
There are reports of poisoning among protesters after drinking water bottles distributed by strangers
Morsi supporters carrying sticks and shields in Cairo today.
Photograph shared by Kareem Fahim (@kfahim) on Twitter.
The day has just started and may not be incident free.
Journalist Evan Hill reports:
@evanchill: Big column of maybe 150 men jogging through rally with sticks and helmets, maybe half of them with matching metal sheet shields
His report matches this photograph shared by Kareem Fahim on Twitter, which shows Morsi supporters, carrying sticks and shields, and wearing helmets.
Stay tuned for more coverage from Egypt as the day's events unfold.
Former Egyptian President Morsi Rants on Twitter · Global Voices
President Mohamed Morsi is no longer the president of Egypt.
Instead, he is ranting on Twitter on his verified Twitter account @EgyPresidency.
Morsi's one-year reign was cut short, after massive protests across Egypt calling for him to resign started on June 30.
Head of the Egyptian Armed Forces General Abdel Fattah Al Sisi said in an announcement broadcast live minutes ago that the Chief Justice of the Constitutional Court Adly Mansour will be the new interim president and that a technocrat national government will be formed.
Al Sisi also announced that the Egyptian constitution has been suspended and that preparations will be made for both presidential and parliamentary elections.
In a series of tweets, in English, Morsi described the action taken by the Army represents a full coup:
@EgyPresidency: Pres. Morsy: Measures announced by Armed Forces leadership represent a full coup categorically rejected by all the free men of our nation
He adds:
@EgyPresidency: Pres. Morsy: Armed Forces announcement is rejected by all free men who struggled for a civil democratic Egypt.
And notes:
Morsy urges everyone to adhere to peacefulness and avoid shedding blood of fellow countrymen.
Gay Uzbekistan: Unknown Singer Stands for an Alternative Lifestyle · Global Voices
Homosexuality is illegal in Uzbekistan, where government officials and the bulk of society hold negative attitudes towards LGBT groups.
But a mysterious musician has recently hit YouTube with a song about the sweetness of forbidden tea, reminding the world that Uzbeks, too, can be gay.
During Soviet times, homosexuality was criminalized under article 121 of the USSR's criminal code, yet only two of the fifteen states that emerged from the collapse of the Union in 1991 retained this clause - Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan.
Nowadays Uzbekistan punishes homosexual practice with three years imprisonment and Islam Karimov, the country's leader for over two decades has said that homosexuality is "disgusting" for Uzbeks.
Seemingly, it depends on which Uzbeks.
Last month, a previously unheard of musician caused a splash with a provocative video on YouTube.
In the video a nameless male soloist from a group called 'Asal Choi' appears in drag, singing an unpretentious song of passion in Uzbek to a male colleague working in the same office.
The clip caused heated exchanges among users of the service and commenters on blogs featuring the video.
Some Uzbeks accused the Asal Choi frontman of 'shaming the nation' while others gave the group credit for raising a taboo topic.
Drink me as your honey tea, know me as your sweet tea.
This is nothing but the reason of a derision and curse of the Uzbek nation, the last thing that we Uzbek people were free of.
What disgrace!
Another user Arnal Toktomamatov said :
Is there anything more pathetic than an Uzbek ?
Only a sodomized Romanian.
Judging by the comments the mentality in Uzbekistan hasn't changed since the 15th century.
The country's perma-president Islam Karimov is not alone in disliking the idea of 'men marrying men'.
The leader of the opposition party 'Erk' , political refugee Muhammad Salih, adheres to a similar viewpoint.
Salih has even traded barbs with Galima Bukharbaeva, editor of the independent diaspora-run website Uznews over the issue of Islam and homosexuality.
The Central Asia news digest quotes him as saying in May last year:
I am a supporter of civilized forms of exclusion of gays and other sick people from the community, so that they will not infect healthy people.
Over on Uznews, a user called Renat opposed this view:
Uzbekistan must recognize the right of its citizens to privacy.
Who sleeps with whom after work should not be a matter of concern to Uzbek security services and police.
2-5% of the population in any society adheres to homosexuality (even more if including bisexuals!)
And not any even the most brutal criminal article, nor 'holy' scriptures can reject the laws of nature.
The fact that pop-stars are drawing the attention of Uzbek society to this problem can only be welcomed.
Fake medieval morality should be overthrown forever!
Another user Некто says :
I am not against homosexuals, no.
I can listen to Elton John or Chaikovsky, Freddie Mercury.
But I am against their defiant attitude towards others, against somebody dictating to others what is a norm and what is not.
There are some foundations on which society has risen.
And it is up to society itself to decide what is normal and what is not.
And not to the laws which gay lobbyists are pushing through in many countries.
Another user, Ash then noted with sarcasm :
I haven't read all the comments of the honorable people, but having skipped through them it seems both teams are good - the homophobes vs 'admirers of pretending to be women'.
One thing is clear - our children will inherit a world even worse than it is now.
Thank you!
No need for applause!
N.B For opponents of homosexuality in Uzbekistan the fact that the singer sang in Uzbek, rather than Russian may be especially galling.
For more on the Uzbek government's attempts to control "un-Uzbek" elements of the internet read Sarah Kendzior's Registan article Why Did Uzbekistan Ban Wikipedia?
This post is part of the GV Central Asia Interns Project at the American University of Central Asia in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.
Will Vietnam’s New Internet Decree Ban Sharing of Online News? · Global Voices
Vietnam’s new Internet decree made public on July 31 instantly generated controversy after it purportedly contains several provisions that would ban the sharing of news stories in various social networks.
But the government clarified that the decree is aimed only at protecting copyright.
The regulation will take effect on September 1.
Decree 72/2013/ND-CP or "Management, Provision, Use of Internet Services and Information Content Online" was signed by Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung on July 15.
It consists of 6 chapters and 46 articles covering these topics:
…internet services and resources, the management, provision, and usage of online information, the establishment of websites and social networks, information about telecommunication networks, online games, and online information safety and security.
An internet cafe in Vietnam.
Image from Flickr page of mikecogh (CC License)
But the controversial 20.4 clause of the decree bothered many people for banning ‘compiled information’:
…personal information webpage is a webpage created by individual on their own or via a social network.
This page should be used to provide and exchange information of that individual only; it does not represent other individual or organization, and is not allowed to provide compiled information
What exactly is a ‘compiled information’?
Tuổi Trẻ newspaper quoted Vietnam’s Broadcast and Electronic Information Department which interpreted it as a reminder for individuals not to “quote or share information from press agencies or websites of government agencies.”
Deputy Minister of Information and Communications Le Nam Thang said the new decree is to prevent misuse of the Internet to spread false information.
It is also intended to help users "find correct and clean information on the internet."
Personal webpage owners are only allowed to provide their own information, and are prohibited from taking news from media agencies and using that information as if it were their own
As expected, the law also enumerated some prohibited acts (Article 5):
…information that is against Vietnam, undermining national security, social order, and national unity or information distorting, slandering, and defaming the prestige of organisations, honour and dignity of individuals.
The Vietnam Committee on Human Rights, which described the decree as “is fatally flawed and inconsistent with international human rights law and standards,” mentioned another potential dangerous provision in the decree:
Article 25 requires the filtering of any information on the Internet based on the interpretation that such information is amongst the “prohibited acts” outlined in Article 5.
Foreign Internet Service Providers will have to provide information about their users when requested by investigative bodies.
Vietnam authorities immediately held a press forum to correct the ‘misunderstanding’ caused by the publication of the decree.
They claimed that the decree would facilitate the development of Internet standards in the country:
The decree generates conditions for the development of internet information forms by licensing websites, social networks, and service supply registration
They also insisted that the decree has no provision prohibiting individuals to share information on social networks:
Decree 72 has no word or sentence prohibiting individuals from using social networks to share and collect information, so it has never been a threat to online reporters and bloggers According to the decree, individuals have the right to collect and share information on social networks.
It stipulates that individuals are allowed to cite information and attach a link to the source information so other people can refer to the original, full information.
The decree aims to protect intellectual property rights and the copyright of press agencies.
In fact, many press agencies are concerned about copyright and author rights.
Indeed, rising cases of copyright infringements has alarmed many companies and businesses.
But Steven Millward of Tech in Asia thinks that Vietnam’s new Internet decree is not fixing the problem:
Vietnam seems to be striking at social media and individual sharing rather than fixing the cause of the problem: content piracy by lazy news sites.
Surely media industry regulation would be a better move than this kind of ban.
Reporters Without Borders criticized the decree as “the harshest offensive against freedom of information”:
The announced decree is nothing less than the harshest offensive against freedom of information since Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung signed a decree imposing tough sanctions on the media in 2011
If it takes effect, Vietnamese will be permanently deprived of the independent and outspoken information that normally circulates in blogs and forums.
The decree is both nonsensical and extremely dangerous.
Its implementation will require massive and constant government surveillance of the entire Internet, an almost impossible challenge.
But, at the same time, it will reinforce the legislative arsenal available to the authorities.
Phil Robertson of Human Rights Watch is worried that the decree will be used for ‘selective persecution’:
This is a law that has been established for selective persecution.
This is a law that will be used against certain people who have become a thorn in the side of the authorities in Hanoi
Germany: Demonstrations Against Surveillance · Global Voices
Many citizens took to the streets on Saturday to demonstrate against mass surveillance by the government.
They consider not only their privacy to be at risk, but also their fundamental rights and democracy itself.
In the light of Edward Snowden's revelations, there were increasing calls on the German government to clarify to the public what they know in terms of surveillance by British and American secret services.
Minister of the Interior Hans-Peter Friedrich provoked outrage when he introduced security over further fundamental rights.
Author Juli Zeh, among those who published an open letter in the FAZ and later posted it to Change.org, described the American secret service NSA in a comment on the public service television programme ZDF as a 'band of thieves'.
The full text can be found on Netzpolitik.de:
“Whenever I think about the NSA affair, I see a house that has just been cleaned out by a band of thieves.
The occupants are standing by the house, looking on.
The property managers are standing by the house looking on as well.
They might call out to the thieves every so often: ‘We demand unremitting intelligence.
We want to know what is happening here.’
And the thieves shout back: ‘That's fine!’, get into the car, and drive away.
See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil.
Images of Chancellor Merkel, Minister of the Interior Friedrich and Head of the Chancellery Pofalla at a demonstration.
(Source: mw238 on Flickr under CC BY-SA 2.0)
Jakob Jochmann describes the abolition of the rule of law in his "Parallelgesellschaft Politik" article as follows:
Ever since the German Minister of the Interior postulated “Super Fundamental Rights" applicable beyond the constitution, the dissolution of the articles of association has been official.
When a government surrenders to the reality, instead of dealing with it in a political sense, the Leviathan will refuse to fulfill the duties incumbent upon it.
The problem, in any case, is not one regarding the government.
It is possible to speak quite justifiably of a failure in the system, since no corrective to the political class has emerged from the development of the post democracy.
For the alleged sovereign, the people, there is no handle that can stop the abolition of the rule of law.
At the same time, not only is there a lack of political alternatives, but also a lack of urgency and communication.
Thousands people demonstrated in several cities on Saturday, expressing their opinion on the government under Chancellor Merkel and the international secret services.
Here are a few impressions from the demonstrations:
Several Twitter users shared photos of billboards depicting the motivations for participating in the demonstration:
"Those who have nothing to hide need not fear the whistleblowers!"
Today it's about pure freedom!"
"Don't wait until they call the right to freedom treason" (Erich Kästner)
"Demonstrators calling out to passers-by "We're exercising your basic rights!"
The midsummer heat was also a topic on Twitter:
"Demo at 36° against 360° surveillance"
To the demo! #Freedom instead of the #Freibad
Three Youths Harassed After Speaking Catalan at Music Festival in Spain · Global Voices
Three young people have reported incidents of discrimination and physical abuse for speaking Catalan at the Arenal Sound music festival in the eastern region of Valencia, Spain. Like in Catalonia, Spanish and Catalan are both official languages in Valencia.
The fourth Arenal Sound musical festival took place in Borriana in the south of Castelló province from 4-7 August, 2013.
On the first night, Laura, a young woman from Castelló, was denied entrance to the arena for having addressed a security guard, who was manning the entrance, in Catalan.
According to what Laura explained to the online newspaper Vilaweb , the security guard demanded that she and her friends spoke in Spanish because he didn't understand any other languages.
When the guard searched Laura, he found she was carrying self-defense spray.
He used this as an excuse to refuse her entry and notify the Guardia Civil, the Spanish gendarmerie.
The Guardia Civil suggested that the young lady spoke in Spanish if she wanted to regain entry, but she and her friends preferred to abandon the festival rather than the right to speak their own language. They then demanded a full refund which they were denied because, according to the guards, the festival director was not informed.
Laura and her friends wore their festival wristbands in protest against an incident which was not motivated by a genuine, language-related misunderstanding, but rather an act of humiliation because of the language they spoke.
Photo of the Arenal Sound festival-goers found on the festival's Facebook page.On Sunday night, another two youths, who had found out about what had happened to Laura, asked the guards if they spoke Catalan.
The same guard who was involved in the previous incident confronted them.
According to the story that one of the young men, Christian, reported to Vilaweb , Christian's friend accused the guard of being a fascist and it was from there that things escalated.
They were surrounded by five guards and one of them pushed Christian to the floor and kicked him.
The hospital report that the young men shared with Vilaweb provides evidence of the attack.
The festival organisers have not apologised.
Their Facebook page has received some negative comments, but for now, the only statements in response are repetitions of what the director, David Sanchéz, said: "The security personnel came from a company in Jaén and therefore didn't understand Catalan".
He also insisted that the festival does not discriminate against anyone "because of their language or origin" and that he had spoken to the security company so as to prevent this from happening in the future.
However, news that Francisco José López Perea, a well-known neo-Nazi , is the founder of Opcón Security which was the company responsible for the security at the festival, has caused many people to doubt this statement.
Valencian is a dialect of Catalan which is spoken in the Valencian Community, an autonomous community in Spain located south of Catalonia and to the West of the Balearic Islands. These three autonomous regions share a history together based on a common language and culture.
Catalan is one of the four official languages in Spain, each corresponding to one region, and the Valencian Statute of Autonomy grants it "native language" status in the region.
Nevertheless, centuries of marginalisation and language shift has caused the situation regarding the lack of protection for the language to be worse than it is in neighbouring Catalonia, subjecting those that speak it to more severe attacks on their rights.
Protests in support of the assaulted and against any of this type of discriminatory behaviour were not expected on the Internet like had happened previously with other cases of anti-Catalan prejudice.
For example, the singer from Xàtiva, Feliu Ventura (@feliuventura) tweeted:
This has to stop.
This apartheid is terrorism against the Valencian way of seeing the world. http://t.co/pTuMa5zpKD — Feliu Ventura (@feliuventura) August 6, 2013
Comedian and television presenter Eugeni Alemany (@EugeniAlemany) questioned the quality of democracy in a country that still today has to deal with situations like those experienced at the Arenal Sound festival:
It says a lot about the foundations of a country if 99% of their "security guards" support the extreme right.
Violent, intolerant, controlling people?
Deal with it! Eugeni Alemany (@EugeniAlemany) August 4, 2013
Musician and journalist Miquel Ramos (@Miquel_R) defended the right to speak Catalan:
Stop fascist attacks on those who speak Valencian.
Stop impunity. #stopvalencianofobia — MiquelRamos (@Miquel_R) August 7, 2013
And in the same vein, philologist Bàrbera M. (@barberamaria) tweeted:
#stopvalencianofòbia We will not tire of saying that speaking Catalan is not a crime.
Why does it bother them so much that we have our own language? — Bàrbera M. (@barberamaria) August 6, 2013
In addition to this, a mass tweet was organised via social networks on 10 August, with the tags #stopvalencianofòbia and @arenalsound in order to raise awareness regarding this linguistic discrimination and to force the festival organisers to apologise.
Here you can read some of the most notable tweets from the mass tweet organised on Saturday evening, such as the tweet by journalist Amàlia Garrigós (@AmaliaGarrigos) :
Our language will only stay alive if we appreciate it.
We can only show our appreciation by speaking it.#StopValencianofòbia @arenalsound — Amàlia Garrigós (@AmaliaGarrigos) August 10, 2013
Or the tweet from Miquel Gironés (@miquelgirones), member of the most international Valencian band, Obrint Pas, who has also been a victim of a police attack for speaking Catalan:
I would like @ArenalSound not to contract this security company again.
Please apologise.
Egypt: "I Literally Felt a Bullet Pass Over my Shoulder" · Global Voices
Egyptian photojournalist Mosa'ab Elshamy was shot at, had a bullet fly over his shoulder, and had his equipment stolen as he ventured into Rabaa Al Adawiya, where a pro-Morsi sit-in was violently dispersed in Cairo, Egypt, today.
He tweets his experience in a series of tweets, which give us a sneak preview of what it was like at the evacuation of the Muslim Brotherhood sit-in in Nasr City this morning.
Getting to the Rabaa sit-in was the easy part:
More black smoke rising from Rabaa.
Can be practically seen from almost anywhere in Nasr City pic.twitter.com/jz35WHLQ9o — Mosa'ab Elshamy (@mosaaberizing) August 14, 2013
There, he first dealt with teargas:
Finally made it into Rabaa.
Tear gas unbearable. — Mosa'ab Elshamy (@mosaaberizing) August 14, 2013
The horror he saw, he captured in a gallery of photographs, he shares on flickr.
The scene at Rabaa's frontline resembles a warzone.
ElShamy has a close brush with snipers:
Worst part is not knowing where the shooting is coming from.
You crouch next to the nearest thing and hope for the best.. — Mosa'ab Elshamy (@mosaaberizing) August 14, 2013
But he remains put, clicking away, as the clashes intensify:
Literally felt a bullet pass over my shoulder.
Heard a buzz similar to that of a gigantic mosquito traveling at the speed of light.
Eerie. — Mosa'ab Elshamy (@mosaaberizing) August 14, 2013
With that, and the pellets of shotgun in his back, Elshamy decides to call it a day:
That, along with the three pellets I sustained in the back, was my cue to leave. — Mosa'ab Elshamy (@mosaaberizing) August 14, 2013
But that was not the end of it.
On my way out of Rabaa I was confronted by a resident vigilant mob which stole my equipment.
Luckily I had kept the SD card in my socks. — Mosa'ab Elshamy (@mosaaberizing) August 14, 2013
Don't miss out ElShamy's photographs from today's clashes on his flickr account here.
Death Threats Follow Cartoonist Latuff's Criticism of Brazil's Military Police · Global Voices
A comment by cartoonist Carlos Latuff on his Facebook about the recent case of the suspected murder of two military police officers by their own 13 -year-old son elicited immediate reactions on social networks, including death threats.
Known for "defending human rights through his cartoons composed of simple strokes and acidic humor", Latuff wrote on his Facebook profile on August 6, 2013:
A boy kills his father, that was a ROTA cop... this boy needs two things: psychological treatment and a medal.
He mentions the primary suspect of the murder of four adult members of the same family from Vila Brasilandia in Sao Paulo is a 13-year-old boy who is thought to have committed suicide after the crime on August 5, 2013.
The boy's father was the sergeant of the elite troop of Sao Paulo military police known as ROTA (an acronym for Tobias de Aguiar's Ostensive Rounds, in Portuguese) with a reputation for killing indiscriminately, and his mother was a corporal of the military police.
The maternal grandmother and aunt of the child were also found dead near the family home.
The Sao Paulo Department of Homicide and Protection of Civil Police Personnel is investigating the controversial case. At a time when the debate about demilitarizing Brazil's military police has deepened following massive protests that overwhelmed the streets of the country in June 2013, Latuff's cartoons criticizing police action are frequent.
In a Facebook post on August 7, Latuff reacted to the threats he received:
During my 23 years of as a professional cartoonist I have been arrested three times for drawing against the brutality of the Brazilian police, and I have already received countless threats, whether from Zionist Jews because of my cartoons in favor of the Palestinians, or from Muslim extremists for my cartoons about the Egyptian and Syrian situation.
Therefore, threats are a part of my work.
But now, military police and their followers have started to threaten the cartoonist with death on social networks and Latuff believes that he is in danger.
Screenshot of the profile of one of the military police officers that threatened Latuff on Facebook: "If I come across him, I put him down (...) the place for people like him is the ditch".
Revista Fórum (Forum Magazine) lists a series of threatening comments made against Latuff in the Facebook page of ROTA, including:
This issue is taboo.
We can't talk about police violence in Brazil.
We live in a police state, and in this state you can't be a critic, or else be threatened. "For significant rendered services."
Latuff's engaging artwork, denouncing the crimes of the military police and the elite police force ROTA.
Cartoon by Carlos Latuff, free use.
On his Facebook, on August 6, he said he did not feel intimidated and reaffirmed:
Those who know my work about police violence know well what I think about the actions of the police in Brazil and abroad.
I am consistent with what I believe.
Even so, the following day the cartoonist made known the actual danger that he is in, making the Brazilian state responsible for whatever may happen to him:
This time, with social networks, these threats are potent, due to the communities linked to police organizations, that bring together not only active members of the forces of repression, but also sympathizers with fascist, anti-communist, anti-Worker's Party (Partido dos Trabalhadores), chauvinist, and homophobic profiles.
It is known that two of these profiles, Fardados e Armados (Uniformed and Armed) e Rondas ostensivas tobias de aguiar "ROTA" are encouraging their members to take violent action against me.
And it is very possible that it will happen, after everything, that the police will kill.
I wouldn't be the first, and certainly not the last.
This is characteristic of our police, of our state.
And if this happens, those responsible will be the administrators of these communities and the Brazilian state.
"The Reaja (React) Campaign supports Carlos Latuff, directly from Bahia that bleeds from a police force that kills. For the end of the Military Police!" Campaign for the end of the Military Police, utilizing the threats made against cartoonist Carlos Latuff.
Art about Latuff's cartoon, free use.
Various organizations have demonstrated their solidarity, such as the Movement of Homeless Workers (MTST, Movimento dos Trabalhadores Sem Teto), Mothers of May (Mães de Maio) and the Unified Socialist Workers' Party (PSTU, Partido Socialista dos Trabalhadores Unificado), which also selected a series of threats posted on social networks against the cartoonist.
Messages of support from individuals and social and political organizations, including from abroad , "filled the inbox" of the author.
The Diário Liberdade (Liberty Daily) republished the letter disseminated by Latuff and professed its support for the cartoonist.
The Catarse communication collective declared Latuff "an artist and a person fundamental to the defense of human rights in Brazil, and also in the many other countries where his work has reached and influenced."
'Spirited Away' Director Criticizes Plans to Amend Japan's Pacifist Constitution · Global Voices
Award-winning Japanese animation film director Hayao Miyazaki and other members of his studio are making waves for their booklet speaking out against representatives's desire to change Japan's Constitution that renounces war.
Hayao is a co-founder of Studio Ghibli, Inc. renowned for the 2001 film "Spirited Away" whose work attracts both children and adults in Japan.
The filmmaker initially started publishing seasonal booklets with the aim of discussing interests aside from film production.
While 75 percent of the members of House of Councilors support amending the Japanese Constitution, the July issue of the booklet "Neppu", which means "hot wind" in Japanese makes loud criticism against potential moves by the Diet members to modify the country's Constitution, including the changes in Article 9 so that the country's Self Defense Force can be deployed overseas as well as changes in Article 21 to tighten freedom of expression and assembly.
The draft version of new Constitution by The Liberal Democratic Party was revealed in April and has been part of political topic during the recent 23rd election of the House of Councilors.
Some critics are fearing amendments to basic human rights and larger power in military.
It's been a long desire for Liberal Democratic Party to amend the constitution. But the public may not be as enthusiastic as the Diet members.
According to telephone-based survey by Kyodo News , 44 percent were for the amendment, and 38 percent of the informant were against the amendment.
Given that the ruling party won the election with 52.61 per cent of its citizen , the 3rd lowest voting rate after the Second World War 2, the administration is planning on changing the Article 96 firsthand to get rid of a clause designed to prevent an imprudent revision of the Constitution.
Screenshot from the Studio Ghibli publishing website announcing PDF download of the booklet
The booklet, which consists of four articles from four contributors related to the studio, begins with a short description of the anxiety surrounding the amendment plan: "Who understands correctly what Minister Abe is going to do regarding the amendment to the Constitution?
It is very important to express one's opinion clearly."
None of the authors wish the Constitution to be amended.
Japan's mainstream media paid attention to the unusual, explicit criticism by filmmakers' under-circulated booklet. Thus, the publisher decided to upload the digital version of this particular edition.
Usually, the booklet is delivered to subscribers' home and can be purchased at a limited number of bookstores . It is downloadable until 6 p.m.
Japan Standard Time on August 20, 2013. Hayao describes what the Constitution should stand for:
A constitution is a goal.
I don't think that the number of poor people will decrease if a part of it has been rewritten into a better sentence.
This is impossible.
However, thanks to the protection of Article 9 and the reconstruction of our economy after World War , Japan has recovered into a country that has a low number of people who die of hunger.
Up until a certain time, people, even the right-wing politicians, tried hard to make this goal, set after the war, and a equitable society a reality.
However, when it is found that we cannot expect further economical growth, there are opinions such as, "This system is not good" or "Welfare benefits have to be reformed".
There are some bad people who abuse the system, but it is wrong if you reform the system only because people misuse it.
One of the most debated sections of the Constitution is the Article 9 in which stipulates Japanese people to forever renounce war.
The existence of Japan's "Self Defense Force" ascribes to this Article:
Chapter II.
Renunciation of War
Article 9.
Aspiring sincerely to an international peace based on justice and order, the Japanese people forever renounce war as a sovereign right of the nation and the threat or use of force as means of settling international disputes.
(2) In order to accomplish the aim of the preceding paragraph, land, sea, and air forces, as well as other war potential, will never be maintained.
The right of belligerency of the state will not be recognized.
Hayao explains in the booklet why he is against amending the Constitution even though current status is somewhat ambivalent:
Without any doubt, I am against the amendment.
We have a low voting rate and the party's share of votes is low as well.
Why on earth can this government declare that they would like to amend our constitution?
This is my true feeling.
I agree that our nation's self-defense forces do not correspond with Article 9, but I think it is better.
Better than turning the self-defense forces into a national military.
Producer Toshio Suzuki wrote about Article 9:
I suppose Article 9 is not that known to the world because we have our self-defense forces.
Our self-defense forces is more known to the world.
If Japan wishes to prove itself to international society, we should do so through Article 9.
Our peaceful society would not be a reality without Article 9.
Is everyone really interested in the amendment now?
I don't think so.
Everyone is more worried about their daily lives.
I consider this issue as an ego trip of politicians.
Isao Takahata, the co-founder of Studio Ghibli and director of the "Grave of the Fireflies", a film about a young brother and sister who survive on their own during the World War II but ultimately die of hunger, wrote:
Article 9 is a wonderful ideal and it should be put in place all over the world.
The Japanese government shall take this Article as the basis of her diplomacy.
This is all I want to say about the Article.
Making the film "Grave of the Fireflies", I have always thought that this kind of film is not really powerful as a deterrence against war in any real way.
Today, the cruelness of a war can be seen on television without recalling the past.
No one starts any wars imagining the cruelness of the war.
I think what we need to recall is how war was started, not the cruel moments at the end of the war.
People who were skeptical about the war and most of the scholars at the time changed their minds to "the war has already started so what we can do is wish for Japan's triumph."
All of them rallied to support the politicians.
Most of them buried their intelligence and rationality and began to hope that Japan would win the war.
Are there any means to stop this pitiful habit?
How can our intelligence or rationality survive?
I believe it is our Article 9.
It is our fundamental ideal.
On social bookmarking service hatena, user Tarou Takamori agreed with Isao that emotions can be easily manipulated:
Mr. Isao Takahata's article was interesting.
He says that we need the deterrence since it will be easy to be entusiastic about starting a war because nowadays our emotions are the basis of our actions.
Some people say that a war will not happen even if the constitution is amended because films such as "Grave of the Fireflies" will teach us to be anti-war anyway.
Another user N2, who feels the issue of comfort women has already been solved with an apology and reparations in 1995, bashed the filmmaker that his opinions in the booklet had no basis of an argument:
It heard that Hayao Miyzaki has written in the booklet that we have to apologize and compensate concerning the comfort women issue.
So I read it till the end despite it was boring.
All I found was his opinion saying that we "should" do so, but it no logic, no reasons and no basis of an argument to support the his opinion.
Blogger H.Kazuyuki commented on Twitter that the studio seems to be turning into a political party:
Studio Ghibli is scary.
It's almost like a political organization.
I found lots of comments such us "I agree with Hayao's opinion" but I hardly agree with any of it.
Film critic Tomohiro Machiyama sees Hayao not as a pacifist but rather someone who approves of the self-defense forces:
In our constitution, we renounced military force.
Mr. Miyazaki supports the compromise plan which wants to protect Article 9 but allows self-defense forces.
There are many countries who have forces but don't allow war as settlement of international disputes such as Germany, Spain, and Italy.
He has a same opinion as them.
This post was originally written by Ayako Yokota.
Keiko Tanaka edited her post and L. Finch sub-edited.
The Moscow Mayor's Mischievous Viral Marketing · Global Voices
Throughout the Moscow mayor’s race, Alexey Navalny’s campaign has taken a beating from all sides on questions about financing, nationalism, and even transparency.
A wide array of government actors and pro-Kremlin interests have harassed him with allegations of illegal foreign funding and off-the-books campaign materials, and even fellow oppositionists worry about his potentially racist attitude toward migrant workers from the Russian south and near abroad.
Navalny now returns the favor.
Earlier today, August 19, 2013, Navalny’s campaign manager, Leonid Volkov, published on LiveJournal evidence that public relations professionals are behind several websites supposedly independent from Sergey Sobyanin’s mayoral campaign.
After offering a brief tutorial in identifying in a website’s source code the origin of “like” widgets that track back to the Russian social network Vkontakte.ru, Volkov demonstrated that the same PR firm, “MakeIdea Inc,” sponsored the VK widgets embedded on two very different pro-Sobyanin web pages. (Since Volkov’s blog post, MakeIdea Inc has deleted both its widgets and VK page.)
The first website, called “Add Sobyanin!,” is a project from advertising photographer Igor Kublin that juxtaposes images of Moscow before and after Mayor Sobyanin’s tenure, showing visitors the city’s various improvements in recent years. (In a rather ingenious marketing ploy, this tactic pits Sobyanin against disgraced former Mayor Yuri Luzhkov, rather than his current rivals, which include Navalny.)
The second website is titled “Test Navalny!” and it features a challenge from neo-Nazi Maksim Martsinkevich, popularly known as “Tesak,” daring Navalny to take a polygraph test while answering ten leading questions clearly intended to defame his reputation.
Volkov also highlights a third website that is ostensibly a protest effort, titled, “Anyone but Sobyanin!”
The site (which hosts a short video of a man caricaturing a North Caucasian kiosk worker complaining about how Sobyanin cleaned up the city’s streets) is actually a transparent endeavor to celebrate Sobyanin’s work to reduce the presence of outdoor vendors in Moscow.
“Anyone but Sobyanin!” featured a VK widget created by Mikhail Liubich , a director at the marketing firm Agency One , which Volkov points out once employed Alexey Goreslavsky, a publicist with established ties to government-friendly circles.
Volkov’s claims against the Sobyanin campaign intentionally mirror the charges Navalny has faced from others.
The raid on the “Navalny Bros,” carried out at the behest of rival candidate Nikolai Levichev, was a smear attempt to show that Navalny uses unofficial henchmen, presumably to spend campaign funding acquired illicitly.
Now it appears that Sobyanin’s reelection hopes also benefit from the work of suspicious “independent supporters.”
To the detractors who often criticize Navalny for his nationalist sympathies, Volkov argues that his rival boasts fascist ties, pointing to the racist extremism inherent in “Anyone but Sobyanin!” and the campaign’s possible connection to a well-known neo-Nazi.
“Sobyanin and Tesak — friends forever!” Volkov jokes.
As it turns out, this isn’t the first time Agency One has been involved in a website designed to boost the personality cult of a prominent Russian politician.
In August 2011, Pavel Prianikov’s blog, “Tolkovatel” (Inquirer), ran a story about “Like-Putin.ru,” a webpage that still exists and features various games, where visitors can battle terrorists and put out wildfires, playing as Vladimir Putin.
When asked who ordered the website, none other than Mikhail Liubich explained, “It’s just PR for our own agency,” denying rumors that the government paid Agency One to build the games.
With scandals so common in this year’s Moscow mayoral race, it’s hard to know if Volkov’s various pro-Sobyanin websites are indeed the work of a clandestine election campaign, or are instead, as Liubich once argued, the PR projects of scheming marketing agencies.
For now, anyway, the Navalny campaign can revel in its own publicity coup, as it shows once again that the Russian authorities throw stones in glass houses.
Syrian Pianist Malek Jandali: "We Need Freedom for True Art" · Global Voices
This post is cross-posted from Syria Untold.
When Syrians took to the streets in March 2011, they rebelled not only against the ruling Assad family, but also against the obscurantism that had been imposed on them for decades.
Art as a whole, and music in particular, have played a crucial role in the paradigm shift that has accompanied the revolution, as Syrians discover their voices for the first time.
Syria Untold spoke to renowned composer and pianist Malek Jandali about the emergence of new forms of art and music in Syria.
Jandali, who composed the song “Watani Ana” (My Homeland) at the start of the revolution, told us what he considers to be his personal contribution to his country: Music for freedom and justice, music for a new Syria.
Syria Anthem of the Free
Jandali’s latest work, a song called “Syria Anthem of the Free,” is something he described as “an anthem by the people, for the people.”
He collaborated with the Russian Philharmonic Orchestra and the Cairo Opera House Choir to produce the song, as he thought Syrians deserved an anthem that represented the people.
The anthem tells the story of the millions of Syrians impacted by the current uprising; the martyrs, the women, the children and the refugees.
“There are so many stories, and we artists, especially musicians, are so lucky because we can cut through the social political limits, and geographical boundaries, and go right into humanity, into the hearts of those children,” Jandali said.
“We can be the voice, rather than the echo of these kids.
Music, as this universal language, can tell the story and put a human face to the sacrifices and the story of those courageous kids.”
The current Syrian national anthem, “Humat al-Diyar” (Guardians of the Homeland), was first adopted in 1938.
It was replaced briefly in 1958, when Syria joined the United Arab Republic with Egypt, but has been the symbol of the country since 1961.
Syrian pianist and composer Malek Jandali.
Source: Malekjandali.com
Jandali said he did not write “Syria Anthem of the Free” with the intention of it being the new national anthem, but would be honored if the Syrian people chose it to be so.
It starts off with the words Syria and freedom, two references missing from the current anthem:
Syria, Syria!
Homeland of the free and land of freedom.
Land of the golden grain
Jandali was born in Germany, but went to school in his home town of Homs.
“Every morning, we were forced to chant and memorize regime slogans,” he said, adding that the Assad regime connected the flag, the country and the national anthem to the regime and Assad family," and that Syria was “Assad’s Syria.”
He said he grew up feeling like a hypocrite; praising the Assad dictatorship while at school, and returning home to a family that was against the brutal regime."
Suppressing art and culture
“ are fearful of art and music, because it’s the search for truth and beauty.
If I spoke my truth then, I would be killed, tortured or deported,” he said, adding that portraits of dictator Assad are on our stamps, walls and notebooks and in our schools in a way that has colonized Syrian spaces, our culture and even our history.
“Most references in the anthem are to the military.
Why don’t we talk about Syrian inventions like the alphabet and music, instead of military forces and war?” Jandali said.
Syria’s coast is home to the world’s oldest music notation, and the Ugaritic alphabet, which is thought to the civilization’s first alphabet.
But instead of paying homage to the country’s rich history, the national anthem begins with a reference to the military, the “guardians of the homeland.”
Ironically, the Syrian Arab Army, in reality the Assad thugs, has been the cause of the destruction of my homeland Syria and committing war crimes against humanity over the last 29 months.
More than 185 thousand civilians have been kills, over 6 million refugees inside Syria and million outside Syria and the entire world is watching!"
Two years ago, Jandali produced an album called “Echoes from Ugarit,” in an attempt to bring back to life Syria’s forgotten music.
He returned to his home country after an absence of 10 years and presented the project to the Ministry of Culture and the Syrian Symphony Orchestra, but was met with rejection.
Jandali said he eventually was forced to to go to the Presidential Palace to seek permission.
“It took about eight months to get security clearance and all the approvals to perform Syrian music in Syria,” he said.
“That shows how corrupt the system is, how they forced expats like you and me to be demonized or disrespected.”
Because his performance went against the wishes of the Ministry of Culture and the symphony, Jandali said they accused him of being a spy.
“They wanted to keep me from being involved in such projects in the future.
They were fearful of knowledge and fearful of exposing the truth.”
The musician feels that it is not only Syria that has suppressed the expression of art; rather, the entire Arab world has.
He gave the example of the Suez Canal in Egypt and commissioning Italian composer Verdi for an opera "Aida" for the opening ceremony.
“Why didn't we have an Arabic opera composed by an Arab musician to celebrate the opening of the Suez Canal?
Didn't our ancestors invent music?” he said.
“That’s insulting as an Arab musician,” he said.
“Where are our symphonies, our operas?
We are the inventors and yet we don’t have a voice.”
A new generation of Syrian artists
Jandali said dictators fear the soft power that can transform people’s mind, which is why they target artists and intellectuals.
He has personally suffered this persecution.
Though he left the country years ago, regime forces have repeatedly ransacked his Syrian home and severely beat his parents in retaliation to his anti-regime activity.
But the revolution has allowed for the birth of a generation of artists, breaking away from the decades of official propaganda present in art production.
“That was not art,” Jandali asserted.
“You need freedom to produce.
You need freedom for true art, for knowledge and culture, for innovation and progress.
Without freedom, there is nothing.”
All of Jandali’s work since the start of the start of Syrian revolution has been self-funded. He generously donated his time and music to help suffering Syrian children in his benefit concerts worldwide.
As the artist wondered, "When are Syrian organizations going to step up and support the very few real Syrian artists who stood with the people in their quest for freedom and human rights?"
The translated lyrics of his latest song, “Syria Anthem of the Free,” are:
Homeland of the free and land of freedom
Oh my country, cradle of civilizations, Its heritage inspired scribes
Homeland of the honorable, resting place of the martyrs
Our sun shines bright, our eagle soars the highest skies
Oh my country, river of virtues
Its glory is engraved in tablets and stones
Homeland of the Prophets, the alphabet and music
We pray to God, never to part from my country, my family
The olive groves of my grandfathers, and the children's hands
Land of the free and home of freedom
Bodies Pile in Egypt, But Birds Still Singing for Russian Vacationers · Global Voices
Over the past several days Russian newspapers have reported , with growing worry, about the 50,000 Russian tourists who run the danger of being stranded in Egypt, if violence there does not abate.
Egypt, along with Turkey, is a popular budget travel destination for Russians, who especially favor the all-inclusive resort towns of Harghuda and Sharm-el-Sheikh on the Red Sea.
In fact, it is so popular that even the growing instability, riots, and several hundred fatalities have not deterred many Russians from taking their long awaited vacations.
"Burning hot tours.
Egypt."
Anonymous image distributed online.
Many Russian bloggers who are either currently in Egypt or are planning to go this month are actively discussing the situation online, in Facebook and VKontakte groups like "Russians in Hurghada."
Some Russians, particularly the ones who have found employment in Egypt's bustling tourist industry, are quick to reassure potential travelers scared by photos of burning buildings and dying Egyptians published in LiveJournal posts like this one .
For example, the VKontakte account I♥Hurghada wrote :
People, don't cancel the travel arrangements that you've paid for.
Hurghada is calm, everything is normal!!!!
When Pavel Kulikov commented, asking :
How can you write that everything is calm and nothing is happening about a country in the middle of a civil war?
I♥Hurghada replied :
Because of panicky individuals, people spoil their vacations, by cancelling.
No one says you should go to Cairo or other cities where there is unrest (! Unrest, not war or something).
I'm talking about resort areas where things are always normal and calm!
Sometimes these attempts to reassure sound a bit strained :
Hi everyone!
I live in Hurghada.
The roads are closed just in case, so the more remote areas of the city have trouble with transportation, sometimes it's just not there.
People are calm. There are few tourists.
Hurghada is warm, nice there are many fruits.
Don't be afraid.
Similarly, a local woman tried to downplay reports of Muslim Brotherhood rallies in downtown Hurghada:
The mass media is a strange thing.
I watched a view stories from "Vesti" today, started thinking — do I live in the same Hurghada? )))
We took photos of the crowd from all sides, no more that couple hundred people with photos of Morsi.
The news talked about some kind of crazy crowd 5,000-strong
Some people wrote straight from Cairo, the epicenter of violence.
On August 14, Lyubov Lobova wrote on the group "Your guide to Sharm-el-Sheikh":
Friends!
I am in Cairo.
Stupidly came here yesterday)))) There is no war here, but the situation isn't fun.
We're stuck at a Giza hotel, because there is curfew.
From 7PM to 6AM.
In Sharm everything is quiet, but it doesn't hurt to take precautions.
Another woman who works as a realtor in Hurghada also blogged :
I'm in Cairo right now, don't look scared!
Everything is fine!!!!!
Where I am there is no hint of some kind of special forces operation.
The birds are singing outside my window and I can hear the sounds of peaceful monotonous everyday life.
Meanwhile, on August 15, the Association of Russian Travel Agents reported that the Russian agency in charge of regulating tourism has advised Russians to refrain from traveling to Egypt, if possible.
Currently the Association's front page hosts an FAQ on how to "annul your vacation package to Egypt."
Even this, however, does not deter intrepid Russian travelers, who seem to think that, even in the worst case scenario, the cavalry will come to their aid:
Guys who live in Egypt have reassured us!
Even the ones who live in Cairo!!!
At the resorts its business as usual:) Even if, God Forbid, there will be war, we will be evacuated - naturally!
So we are getting ready for the usually party vacation in our favorite Sharm and advise that to everyone else!;)
A beach in Mersa Matruh, Egypt.
The caption reads "Russian tourists have threatened to quash the unrest in Egypt, if it gets in the way of their vacation."
This somewhat reckless type of behavior has led to jokes, such as this tweet:
Egypt is fine.
There are 60,000 of our nutcases there.
Theoretically we could put in a bit of effort and take power on the sly.
And there was this fake-news piece on "Intersucks" (a word play on the news agency Interfax):
The forces of Egypt's republican army have been smashed on approach to Sharm-el-Sheikh and Hurghada.
In the second half of the day, both cities came under total control of vacationers from Russia.
"These are our cities, and we won't let anyone dictate to us their rules. " said the commander of the Russian Alcoholic army, Nikolai Denikin.
Behind such levity lies a sad fact, however.
Many Russians are going through with their plans because they cannot afford to lose their vacations — especially since they are not guaranteed their money back.
This point was made by Facebook user Elijah Chertcoff:
Those who have managed to save for a warm beach vacation from their pauperly wages of 15-20 thousand rubles , have nothing to do but close their eyes, set their teeth, and get their dose of ultraviolet and vitamins "before it hits the fan."
After all, the Egyptian army will guard the resort area and the comfort of the Russians to the end
This theory seems to be borne out by this despairing VKontakte comment :
How can we not try to reassure ourselves, if we have decided to go?
We are all scared, but someone gave up their travel package, and someone didn't, and will try to reassure themselves.
Do FEMEN's Topless Protests Advance Women's Rights or Jeopardize Them? · Global Voices
Whether the feminist movements in Europe and France rally behind them or not, the controversy surrounding feminist protest group FEMEN continues.
Triggering a barrage of criticism and attacks on social media, in the press and within some political circles, the members of FEMEN-using their bare breasts as simple yet radical weapons-seem to serve as a symbol of protest for women facing difficulties all over the world.
When a man sets himself on fire in protest, no one thinks to accuse him of harming any social justice movements.
So is FEMEN jeopardizing women's rights with the radical nature of their actions?
Following FEMEN's shows of support for Tunisian FEMEN activist Amina Tyler, who had been threatened by Tunisian leaders for posting topless political photos on her Facebook page and was arrested for painting the group's name on a cemetery wall in Kairouan in protest at a planned meeting of radical Sunni Muslim Salafists, Karima Brini , founder of Tunisian association Femme et citoyenneté (Women and citizenship), wrote that such radicalization can be damaging .
Three FEMEN activists were later arrested and imprisoned for protesting topless in front of the Justice Ministry in Tunis in support of Tyler:
The reasons for their fight against the exploitation of women are honourable.
But what they have done here in Tunisia will adversely affect us because people will be inclined to associate their actions with organizations working for women's rights.
FEMEN's trade secret
There are likely many circumstantial reasons that the FEMEN movement has been experiencing so much media success.
With unceasingly white-hot Twitter accounts (nearly 7,000 followers for FEMEN France) and passionate Facebook pages for every country (nearly 40,000 likes on the FEMEN France page), as well as a content-filled website, it is clear that FEMEN activists know how to use all the means at their disposal to make some noise-and they do.
It seems their key to success lies simply in their radically innovative means of protest: a simple, powerful, effective, iconic, popular, universal, and age-old gesture, a huge kick in the hornet's nest.
A gesture that Olivier Ciappa wanted to reflect in the new French stamp he designed, bearing an image of the country's national emblem Marianne inspired by prominent FEMEN activist Inna Shevchenko:
She best exemplifies the values of the French Republic: liberty, equality, fraternity.
Feminism is an integral part of these values.
And Marianne was topless during the Revolution, so why not pay tribute to this fabulous FEMENist?
It is also a gesture for which Tunisian FEMEN activist Amina Tyler has been both celebrated and condemned.
Charged with "immoral conduct" (gestes immoraux ) by the Tunisian Ministry of Justice, it is this very gesture that Sami Adleeb defended on his blog :
In no way is her act indecent or symptomatic of any psychological disorder.
It is a outcry of indignation and anger directed towards sanctimoniousness .
She wanted to draw global attention to the violations of women's rights, the trivialization of rape and the impunity being enjoyed by rapists in post-Revolution Tunisia.
By using this unprecedented method of political expression in Tunisia, Amina has not violated any taboos or moral order , she rightly has nothing to hide, that is why she makes her demands in complete dignity and freedom.
"Free Amina" (Libérez Amina): Show of support for Amina in Montreal posted on FEMEN France's Facebook page, courtesy of FEMEN France
Nudity, particularly that of women, as a form of protest against societal violence in public space had been mentioned before by Rue 89 in 2011 in relation to the Tibet-China conflict:
In September, in Shanghai, another woman-77 years old and a doctor-used another form of protest: she demonstrated, nude and on her knees, in front of the local court.
An unclear but "sextreme" message
If FEMEN's actions are clear, the message attached to them seems to be harder to understand.
After posting a problematic tweet about Islam and Ramadan, Inna Shevchenko defended herself from the charges of islamophobia in the French daily newspaper Libération :
Inna Shevchenko brushes off accusations of Islamophobia, preferring the term "religiophobe" and insisting that FEMEN is "not afraid to point out draconian aspects of that religion or of other religions."
FEMEN's website has recently evolved, it seems, to take a more radical turn, combining highly connotative symbols like the swastika with battle poses and anti-male sentiment:
FEMEN - is the new Amazons, capable to undermine the foundations of the patriarchal world by their intellect, sex, agility, make disorder, bring neurosis and panic to the men's world.
In India, other women have moved from an imagined battle of the sexes to a real one with the Pink Sari gang :
They chose pink as the symbol of their struggle and count hundreds of activists among their ranks.
They are armed with lathi-traditional sticks-used to beat men who have abused or abandoned their wives, and also to "beat" police officers who have refused to register rape complaints.
FEMEN seems much more moderate on their site's info page:
We unite young women based on the principles of social awareness and activism, intellectual and cultural development.
We recognise the European values of freedom, equality and comprehensive development of a person irrespective of the gender.
We build up a national image of femininity, maternity and beauty based on the Euro-Atlantic women’s movements experience.
The word "national" in the last sentence could raise some eyebrows, however.
Neither for or against
The FEMEN movement's identity is very much under construction, constantly evolving along with the news that it generates.
It arouses hatred that seems to come from another era, but also a lot of misunderstandings, in particular from feminists.
The site Egalité et réconcilitation , for example, states:
"It is only a simulation of feminism" .
FEMEN "is as damaging to Ukraine's image as it is to the real feminist movement," adds Marianna Evsioukova, an official in Kiev at international NGO La Strada, which defends women's rights.
Others liken FEMEN to a commercial project .
But FEMEN does have its gesture, this gesture that connects it to the world, especially to women.
A group of Greek women posted the following video on FEMEN France's Facebook page as a show of support to Amina and following the temporary censorship of their Facebook page.
If there is so much discussion about FEMEN, it is probably because, whatever is said, the issue of women's rights is far from being resolved both in France and abroad.
Thus, it seems that the question is not about being for or against FEMEN, but rather about seeing the light shed on this archaic injustice as an opportunity for feminist movements in general to change and evolve.
According to Femmes pour la paix's website :
All activism requires courage because in some sense we are laying ourselves bare before an undifferentiated mass.
It is easier to stay at home and watch the world go by without us than to get involved.
PHOTO: Churches are Crying in Egypt · Global Voices
In reaction to burning churches, a little girl in Upper Egypt sketched this picture that brought tears to my eyes: pic.twitter.com/iymw3SF49R — daliaziada (@daliaziada) August 15, 2013
Egyptian women rights advocate Dalia Aziada posted this tweet after several Coptic churches were burnt across Egypt following a brutal military operation on August 14 2013, to clear Muslim Brotherhood supporters from sit-in camps in the capital Cairo, where they have been demanding ousted president Morsi's reinstatement for weeks.
The clearing operation resulted in at least 638 deaths according to the Egyptian government.
A Muslim Brotherhood spokesman has said 2,000 people were killed in the “massacre.”
Dozens more were killed on August 16, as Muslim Brotherhood supporters clashed with security forces in the "Day of Anger."
Read more in our Special Coverage Bloodbath in Egypt.
PHOTOS: Rediscovering Slovenia, Treasured Vacation Spot of the Balkans · Global Voices
Slovenia is becoming an ever more popular destination in recent years due to the numerous attractive vacation features it has, in particular for citizens of Europe.
Slovenia's idea to focus on and develop health tourism is a flourishing success and this small country now has dozens of natural spas and health resorts.
Using it's geographic advantages in terms of location and climate, Slovenia's development plan has created 15 of the most modern health resorts under the tagline "Through Nature to Health".
This spa tourism campaign has given Slovenia a rising number of visitors who are fans of the green Mediterranean coast.
One of Slovenia's main natural wonders - Skocjan Caves; used under Creative Commons license.
The Slovenian coastline is only 46.6 kilometers long, while the coastal towns of Piran, Izila and Kopar draw tourists with their original medieval structures and feel.
Social media sites are loaded this summer with warm greetings by users from around Europe and the world during their vacations in Slovenia, who seem most impressed by the country's natural wonders.
A Facebook page for caving enthusiasts shares photos by tourists of the amazing Skocjan caves.
Another Facebook page, dedicated to summer in Slovenia, shares users' photos of summer activities such as rafting.
Kayaking lessons in Soča Valley; photo courtesy of Soča Rafting, used with permission.
Soča Valley offers many activities and adventures; photo courtesy of Soča Rafting, used with permission.
The most popular destination, however, seems to be the city of Bled:
Alastair Mavor, a Nottingham University History student from London, says this about Bled:
Lake Bled - pretty unbeatable! #slovenia #interail pic.twitter.com/YgPF4tMn5a — Alastair Mavor (@alastairmavor) August 4, 2013
Another Twitter user, a media professional and speaker native to Slovenia, @LenjaFPapp says:
The magical way to end your Sunday! #MassageInNature #sLOVEnia pic.twitter.com/l7vquChnkk — Lenja Faraguna. (@LenjaFPapp) August 4, 2013
A visitor from Austria @StephDo_ posts as picturesque photo of Bled Lake:
Iran: Bye, Bye President Ahmadinejad · Global Voices
Ahmadinejad's departure.
Source: Twitter user @Aatehranii
Iran's most divisive president since the 1979 revolution left office on Saturday, August 3, 2013.
His successor, Hassan Rouhani, is now tasked with undoing the damage Ahmadinejad wrought at home and abroad.
Netizens published photos, posts, messages and tweets in to celebrate his departure.
Some remembered the 2009 protest movement after a controversial presidential election that elected Ahmadinejad to a second term. #AhmadiByeBye is the slogan and hashtag.
Several photos and cartoons of the former president are shared on Twitter.
Many Iranians and non-Iranians say Mahmoud Ahmadinejad lied about different issues for eight years.
Hadi Nili, an Iranian journalist and a former contributor to Global Voices shared the same thought:
"Tonight #Iran loses one of its bests; the best in lying. #AhmadiByeBye", writes @rezayekhali — Hadi Nili (@HadiNili) August 2, 2013
Salar tweeted :
In 8 years he did not answer a single question, always with mockery he skipped the questions.
The ghosts of the previous election and the Green Movement is still present in today's messages.
Mehdi Saharkhiz tweeted:
Today right now he is moving out of where he should have moved out of 4 years ago.
But what matters is he is gone #AhmadiByeBye #iranbrief — Mehdi Saharkhiz (@onlymehdi) August 2, 2013 Mehdi Saharkhiz reminds us about controversial presidential election when many claim the election's result was rigged:
I can't say president. The real president is still under house arrest. #AhmadiByeBye is what he is #iranbrief — Mehdi Saharkhiz (@onlymehdi) August 2, 2013
Tara Aghdashloo tweeted: My boyfriend walking around the house singing #AhmadiByeBye — and he's not even Iranian. — Tara Aghdashloo (@taraaghdashloo) June 18, 2013
Josh Sharyar shares the same joy and says:
Can't be too happy about Ahmadinejad leaving.
Too many journos, activists, lawyers, citizens still in jail because of him. #AhmadiByeBye — Josh Shahryar شهريار (@JShahryar) August 2, 2013
Brazil's Vinegar Revolt Renews Police Demilitarization Debate · Global Voices
This post is part of our special coverage Vinegar Revolt
The merits of having a militarized police force is under scrutiny in Brazil in response to accusations of blatant police violence against journalists and civilians during protests last month's massive protests throughout the country.
The debate on the demilitarization of the military police in the country is not new.
Part of the legacy of Brazil's dictatorship from 1964 to 1985, the military police emerged as a solution through the extinction of the Public Force and Civil Guard.
After the 1964 coup, the new government abandoned the idea of creating a single, civilian police and implemented a military model.
Today, almost all urban policing in Brazil is done by military police attached to the governments of each state, and the country remains the only one in the world to have a police force that operates out of the military barracks.
Photo by Calé Merege on Facebook (used with permission).
The recent protests have resurrected the question for debate.
On July 1, 2013, during public class organized in the hall of Museum of Art of São Paulo (MASP) by the group Occupy Sampa, guest lecturer Tulio Vianna, a professor of Criminal Law at the Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), argued that the design of military training is what triggers excessively violent actions by police.
For Vianna:
Visit to Israel Gets Filmmaker "Cleansed" from Iran's Cinema Museum · Global Voices
Iranian film maker, M. Makhmalbaf, at Jerusalem Film Festival, photo courtesy of JFF official website
An internationally renowned Iranian filmmaker, Mohsen Makhmalbaf, outraged many Iranians by accepting an invitation to the Jerusalem Film Festival in Israel this month.
Makhmalbaf, who is also a Green Movement activist and a former revolutionary, has divided Iranians over whether his attendance is a step towards healing "rifts and distances" between the nations, as he stated, or whether it is in absolute disregard for Palestinian human rights, as his critics say.
Makhmalbaf participated in the Jerusalem Film Festival with his new movie, The Gardner:
The conversation is still hot and fresh among Iranians in social media and has prompted petitions signed by activists, academicians and journalists within the diaspora.
The virtual world became a battleground for discussions about Makhmalbaf's trip.
First, an open letter signed by a group of "Iranian scholars, artists, journalists and activists" was published lamenting the director's neglect of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement (BDS) against Israel:
We cannot in good conscience stand by Mr. Makhmalbaf and his decision which will inevitably validate the Israeli occupation, apartheid and ethnic cleansing.
We ask not only that Mr. Makhmalbaf stand with the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Movement, but that he be a messenger of liberation for everyone, including both Palestinians and Iranians.
Then, another group of activists and academics penned a letter in support of the director's visit to Israel lauding his "brave action" as a peaceful gesture towards "conveying the message of friendship":
We condemn the politics of war whether it is advanced by officials of the Islamic Regime or some officials in Israel.
Instead, we endorse, support and welcome, the position of Mohsen Makhmalbaf that instead of a military attack, Iran’s “democratic forces” should be supported.
Just like Mohsen Makhmalbaf, we are unafraid to stretch out our hands in friendship with the citizens of Israel and believe that art can be a tool that brings people together regardless of people’s racial, linguistic and political differences.
The polarisation was not limited to academia.
In social media the subject of the director's visit to Israel was hot among the netizens too.
Samareh, looks at the criticism with a pinch of salt and a bit of cynicism, commenting on Balatarin, an Iranian link sharing website:
Makhmalbaf took a great measure going to Israel and speaking of peace.
He showed that the Iranian nation is different from the Iranian regime which is a big blow to the clerical government.
One reason is a by-law from the ministry of intelligence to all its footmen: "Tarnish Makhmalbaf's name immediately, only make sure that this is done from the position of the Islamic Republic's enemies to divide the opposition.
If, in the meantime, you had to swear to the Islamic Republic there is absolutely no problem with that.
Iranian blogger, Adel, expresses his disdain, seeing a big distinction between what artists do from the realm of politics and, thus, dismissing what Mohsen Makhmalbaf did as futile from the very beginning:
If we are a bit realistic, we will see that the political discourse of artists oftentimes does not have any effect on politicians; Especially Israeli politicians who do not even listen to their American counterparts!
Now which cause is Mr. Makhmalbaf is trying to serve?
If he wishes to bring the two nations closer to peace, its actual outcome will not be anything other than bringing out a racist government from isolation.
Following this trip, the Islamic Republic's deputy minister of culture and Islamic guidance, Javad Shamaghdari, ordered all Makhmalbaf's memorabilia to be "cleansed" from the Iranian national museum of cinema and a cleric has renounced him as an apostate.
One thing is for sure in this heated conversation: that just like any other debate in the Iranian context, Mohsen Makhmalbaf has brought out the colourful sphere of Iranian society that is unlike what many may wish to think.
Roser Tarragó, one of the nine Catalan players of the Spain women's water polo team that won the gold medal at the 2013 FINA World Aquatics Championships, closed her Twitter account (@rutarrago) on August 5, 2013 after being bullied for showing a Catalan separatist flag on her Twitter profile.
On Sunday, after winning the gold medal with the Spanish team in Barcelona, Tarragó received the corresponding congratulations.
But soon some websites, such as eleconomista.es , noticed she was showing a Catalan separatist flag made with typographical characters _BAR__BAR_*_BAR__BAR_ on her Twitter handle and a picture wearing the Catalan team suit instead of the Spanish one.
She then became the target of a barrage of disparaging comments through the social network.
Netizens supported Tarragó with hashtags #totssomrosertarrago (we all are Roser Tarragó) and #totsambrosertarrago (everybody with Roser Tarragó).
Among the comments written below the article , some called her names, such as "son of the b****", "stupid", "scum" or "mercenary".
Other comments, like one signed by a reader identified as "Spanish" which was marked by other readers with 186 negative votes, claim that she shouldn't have been admitted into the Spanish team because she feels Catalan:
I don't get why don't ask if they feel Spanish before selecting them for being good at certain sports, we the Spanish feel the victories of our teams if they feel Spanish, if not I prefer that they don't play even if we don't win anything at all.
However, support messages have been published using the hashtags #totssomrosertarrago (we all are Roser Tarragó) and #totsambrosertarrago (everybody with Roser Tarragó). Supporting tweets and reasonable comments defending Tarragós' rights to choose the best options for her professional career while freely expressing her identity and political opinions have flooded the net.
Sara Díaz (@SaritaDiaz_93), editor on synchronized swimming at vavel.com.es, Ariadna Bassols (@aribassols), artistic gymnastics coach, and Cl.J.León (@tirant_el_blanc) tweeted as follows:
My humble opinion My support for @RuTarrago for the insults she's getting and respect for her if she wants to keep on playing with the Spanish team!!
Though the Madrid 2020 committee (@Madrid2010ES), which supports the Spanish capital's bid for the 2020 Olympic & Paralympic Games, uses an image of Tarragó for promotion purposes, nobody has stood up for the player.
Tarragó has never hidden her Catalan identity.
In April, after playing with the Catalan team, which is not allowed to compete at the Olympic Games, she declared that "it was a very special game, I could finally defend my colours".
This is not the only case of anti-Catalan attitudes in Spain against athletes.
Another relevant case is that of Àlex Fàbregas, a Catalan Olympian who mentioned in July 2012 that he felt more Catalan than Spanish and only played for Spain because “he has no other option” (there is a Spanish law penalizing athletes who refuse to join the Olympic team).
A storm of violent comments towards Fàbregas — including death threats — led the athlete to delete his Twitter account.
Sympathetic users created the hashtag #TotsSomÀlexFàbregas (We're all Àlex Fàbregas) in response.
"Me & My Shadow": Protecting Data on the Net · Global Voices
The Internet, mobile phones, and other such achievements of progress have become essential aspects of human existence, and have simplified communication between people and integrated them into a new space.
By registering on websites, filling in surveys on social networks, or uploading photos to Instagram, we are inevitably adding to the overall database, continuing the story of our virtual life.
The people with whom we communicate, the places we call from, and what we enter in search engines—it's all undoubtedly confidential information, but it's available not just to us.
There are many examples of Internet users' data being used.
One of the most obvious cases is linked to PRISM, a US government program often mentioned in the news today.
The matter has landed in court, and companies have begun encrypting their data archives more urgently.
Some businesses succeed in protecting confidential information, but many are forced conceal government requests, leaving their users vulnerable.
For help, many are turning to the Tactical Technology Collective, a project that unites technology professionals, designers, programmers, lawyers, and activists based in Europe, Asia, and Africa on matters concerning information rights.
On the group's website, it is possible not only to find out what information third parties are using, but also to stock up on defensive technology in the fight for digital rights.
The Collective's managers warn that encryption is a double-edged sword.
On the one hand, it reduces your "shadow," ensuring a basic level of protection.
On the other hand, it can attract even more attention, if you decide to be completely invisible.
Therefore, it is important to be use selectively the available tools and resources, which have grown vastly.
The website "Me & My Shadow" has gathered together the best of these instruments.
A screenshot of the site "Me and my Shadow"
The site assigns each app or program a category, offers a short description of its function and speciality, and a link to its designer's site.
"Me & My Shadow" endorses a list of Internet browsers and, curiously enough, its top choice of sites is Mozilla's Firefox, created by an established, non-profit organization, allowing encryption via various add-ons that are freely available to download.
As a point of interest, Google's Chrome does not boast any great concern for users, and it's not difficult for third parties to collect user data by connecting to Google profiles.
The best search engine according to "Me & My Shadow" is "Duck Duck Go," as there are no circumstances under which it will share your search request data with any third party—something that cannot be said confidently about Bing or Google.
"Me & My Shadow" also lists recommended programs for video chat, email correspondence, resources for cooperative work, and so on.
It also hosts a full catalog of other useful tools, and boasts an interactive, comfortable website design.
In addition to technological support, visitors can subscribe to receive updates about important information.
They can find out how their information might be used, what is written in user agreements, read excerpts of memos on confidentiality from Facebook, Yahoo, and Instagram, and much more.
The game, "Data Dealer," found in the site's resource section, is particularly interesting.
In the game, users must build their own information empire by any means necessary, legal or illegal, selling information to insurance companies and key interest groups, and providing protection from hackers, activists, and the mass media.
Although it's far-fetched, the game really shows the workings of this unstoppable, huge system.
Written by Kirll Alekseev.
The original text is available at the site "Теплицы социальных технологий" (Greenhouses of Social Technologies).
'Syria Untold': The Storytelling of the Syrian Revolution · Global Voices
More than two years into the Syrian uprising as the battle continues on the ground, a new outspoken and creative Syria has emerged after decades of isolation and silence.
From strikes to sit-ins, from creative songs and banners to countless citizen demonstrations, daily resistance against tyranny carries on, largely uncovered by mainstream media.
For a few months, I have been working with a group of Syrian journalists, writers, programmers, and designers based in Syria and abroad on a digital media project focusing on telling the story of the Syrian revolution. We are now ready to launch Syria Untold.
Our project combines content aggregation from social media and information collected and shared by grassroots activists with original content created by our team.
We have two versions, English and Arabic.
We will focus on the story of the uprising through grassroots campaigns, civil disobedience, art, and creativity.
The story of the voices that do not usually get covered by mainstream media.
The story of the daily resistance that continues despite increasing militarization on the ground and despite the regime's attempts to silence every form of citizen expression.
We want to highlight these voices and help others understand them in context.
Syria Untold will be partnering with Global Voices Online.
Syria Untold posts will be edited by Global Voices editors and translated by volunteer translators, as part of GV's interest in highlighting citizen voices and grassroots initiatives.
We will need everyone's help to make this happen, so stay tuned for #syriauntold!
http://www.syriauntold.com/
About Syria Untold: Syria Untold is an independent digital media project exploring the storytelling of the Syrian struggle and the diverse forms of resistance.
We are a team of Syrian writers, journalists, programmers and designers living in the country and abroad trying to highlight the narrative of the Syrian revolution, which Syrian men and women are writing day by day.
Through grassroots campaigns, emerging forms of self-management and self-government and endless manifestations of citizen creativity, a new outspoken Syria has emerged, after decades of repression and paralysis.
With mainstream media focusing increasingly on geostrategic and military aspects and less on internal dynamics developing on the ground, we believe there are many aspects of the Syrian struggle that remain uncovered, many stories that we would not like to see forgotten.
Welcome to the stories of daily resistance and creativity.
Welcome to Syria Untold.
Hong Kong Sex Workers Forced to Pay for Good Reviews Online · Global Voices
Many believe that the Internet has empowered individuals and social minorities by giving them a voice.
For sex workers, however, it is another story.
As Hong Kong law criminalizes "the exhibition of advertisement on sexual service" and "conspiracy to live on earnings of prostitution of others", they cannot run their individual websites and are exploited by those who are capable of running sexual service promotion sites overseas.
Mavis Siu for Hong Kong-based inmediahk.net investigates the manipulation of sex workers by website sex141.com, which is the biggest portal website for sexual services in Hong Kong.
Her article originally appeared on inmediahk.net on July 24, 2013 in Chinese.
The trimmed English version has been translated by Alpha Au and republished on Global Voices as part of a content-sharing agreement.
JJJ association set up counter to help local sex workers at TST district.
Photo taken from inmediahk.net (CC: AT-NC)
A number of newspapers have exposed that sex141.com has taken advantage of "Money-Drop Review", a customer review of service, to scam money from sex workers who were smeared by anonymous Internet users and ghostwriters unless they paid to get good reviews from the website-recommended ghostwriters.
JJJ Association , an organization defending the rights of sex workers, has debriefed the situation to local journalists.
Yet many still wonder: Why do exploited sex workers continue to register and have their profile shown on sex141?
Monopoly of the online sex industry
The scams that exploit sex workers are related to the monopoly of the porn site business in Hong Kong.
There are three major porn sites in Hong Kong, with sex141 being the most active with its index on "One-Woman Brothels", the term for sex workers working out of small, often one-room apartments in the city. sex141 was created in 2002 by a local university graduate .
The website allows sex workers to publish ads as well as offers a forum.
Originally, it was based in Hong Kong, but after the owner was convicted of "conspiracy to live on earnings of prostitution of others" in 2006, the web server has moved to the US, managed by a company called Black Lotus Communications.
In recent years, it has expanded to other Asian regions such as China, Taiwan, and Macau.
The site that targets the Hong Kong market has a "VIP girls database", which categorizes the registered sex workers according to location of their workplace to make the search results more convenient to customers.
A campaigner from the JJJ Association said the porn site is very resourceful.
For example, they have a legal team to back up their work.
Their web ranking and popularity is high and thus has established their monopolized status in Hong Kong.
According to alexa.com, sex141 was ranked 126th in web traffic in Hong Kong, while two other similar porn sites "Miss 148″ and "161 Sex" were ranked 1,088th and 1,638th respectively.
Miss Ho, a sex worker registered on sex141 for more than a year, believes that the high popularity of sex141 is a result of its marketing techniques.
Other than the main site, sex141 also runs an online forum .
The forum's content is no different from any other public forum, except it has a lot of ads from sex141 and other sex-related products and services.
The forum ranks 148th on Alexa.
Just like other porn sites, sex141 comes with a "paid member" system, under the name "Sponsored Member Scheme".
Members who donate $300, $1,000 or $8,800 have different user rights, such as taking or viewing the sex workers' photos, reading service reviews, watching online videos and using search and other functions.
Members could also earn credits in the forum to obtain more user rights.
Miss Ho pointed out that sex workers are the biggest source of income for sex141.
"We pay 1,300 Hong Kong dollars each month for putting up ads," she said.
Currently, there are more than 3,000 sex workers on the site.
It's estimated monthly income is in the millions.
The high cost of bad reviews
Miss Ho agrees that sex141 is an effective platform for advertising their services.
It helps her business.
"I cannot explain why clients are so dependent on the site, anyway it helps us get more clients," she said.
Yet sex141 wants to extract more from the sex workers in addition to their monthly ads fee.
Miss Ho pointed out that sex141 has "many different tricks to exploit sex workers".
For instance, there is a "Star of Today — Flower Box" on the main page.
The website has a function that allows clients to buy virtual flowers for the sex workers.
But in most of the cases, the sex workers are paying 300 HK dollars (about 40 US dollars) to get themselves 30 virtual flowers from the system for self-promotion.
"These things are tricky, but none is worse than “Money-Drop Review”, she said.
"Money-Drop Review" is a recently added feature.
It encourages members to write bad reviews, such as the service was terrible or even that the sex worker has sexually transmitted diseases.
The writers are not responsible for the reviews, nor do they have the responsibility to offer proof.
The reviews smear the sex workers, and they have to pay for good reviews.
"It costs $200 to delete a bad review.
If the smeared sex worker was not a paid member of sex141, she has to pay 1,300 HK dollars to become a member, and another 1,000 HK dollars for FeiLung to write three good reviews in order to maintain a positive image and business", Miss Ho added.
This “Money-Drop Review” not only forces the paid sex worker members to pay more, but also forces others to join the site.
"141 could have raised the ads fee to, say, 3,000 to 4,000 HK dollars , the sex workers could then choose whether or not to continue using their service," Miss Ho indignantly said .
The current bad review system has caused emotional stress as much as financial burden.
Miss Ho heard that one sex worker spends 10,000 HK dollars (about 1,300 US dollars) per month on ghostwriting, and some even get depressed and suicidal because of smearing.
When a bad review accuses a sex worker of having sexually transmitted disease, her business will go down immediately.
Given the nature of their work, sex workers have no way to look out for bad reviews or refute untrue allegations.
If they want to get laudatory words, they have to use the ghostwriter service.
Miss Ho questioned why sex141 does not protect their sex worker members: "After all, we are the ones who pay for the ads!
Why does the Money-Drop Review only target us?
The other ads on the site like finance companies, sex products, and sexual hotlines do not have a similar review feature."
The website defends their review feature citing freedom of speech.
However, the "bad reviews" cannot be proved right and the review writers are not responsible for their untrue remarks.
The "freedom" has undoubtedly hurt the sex workers.
Miss Ho questioned, "When the information includes the workers' addresses, names and phone numbers, how would its influence be unrelated to the real world?"
The admin of sex141 forum suggested that "the recommended reviewers "FeiLung" and "GwatZingKoeng" are chartered writers and are not employees of the site … no one is allowed to charge in the name of sex141."
But Miss Ho questioned, "If there is no embedded interest, why does the advertising department of 141 recommend the two ghostwriters to us?"
Inmediahk.net's contributing reporter tried to contact the staff of sex141, but received the reply, "You know the nature of our website.
We don't accept media interviews.
No comment."
A member of the JJJ Association said that they have introduced other websites of similar nature to local sex workers, but the lack of popularity and view count cannot help them to attract clients.
The association once considered setting up a new platform, but once they were confronted with legal risks and technical problems, they were forced to drop the idea.
It appears that the workers have no other choice but to keep on "paying for their own discomfort" if the monopoly situation continues.
Teen Activist Malala Yousafzai Impresses UN, Polarizes Pakistan · Global Voices
Malala has already become a symbol for child education and women empowerment around the world, but some in her country Pakistan continue to spin conspiracy theories to malign her.
At the special UN session on July 12, 2013, on what the UN has declared "Malala Day", she called upon world leaders to provide free and compulsory education to the children around the world.
She also said that something must be done for the 57 million children today who go without access to education.
http://youtu.be/B5X70VyjU0g
Malala's speech was widely quoted all over the world, including within Pakistan.
She and her family were cordially congratulated on social media, with many Pakistanis expressing their pride of her standing at the UN sitting next to world leaders.
Bushra Gohar (@BushraGohar), senior vice president of the Awami National Party and former member of the national assembly from the Khyber-Pakhtoonkhwa province where Malala is from, tweeted:
@BushraGohar: "Let us pick up our books and our pens.
They are our most powerful weapons.
One teacher, one book, one pen, can change the world," #Malala
Dentist, Senior Ted fellow and blogger Dr. Awab Alvi (@DrAwab) wrote:
@DrAwab: #MalalaDay Pakistan needs heros to be applauded, and I applaud her for her standing up for Women, Children, Education & Peace in Pakistan
Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani schoolgirl who survived an assassination attempt by the Taliban, called for world leaders to protect rights to equality and education in an address to youth at the United Nations on Friday, her 16th birthday.
Image by Nancy Siesel.
Copyright Demotix (12/7/2013)
Salman Lateef (@SalmanLateef), author and blogger at the Express Tribune, described Malala's qualities:
@SalmanLateef: Calm aplomb, unfazed confidence, clear speech, wise words - #Malala is indeed the pride of this nation. #MalalaDay
Raza Rumi (@RazaRumi), a journalist and director of Pakistani think-tank Jinnah Institute, tweeted:
@RazaRumi: I was in tears hearing Malala's speech.
How many macho ghairatmand (masculine honor) Pakistanis display such courage in the face of extremists.
Proud of her!
Many on Twitter questioned why Malala's speech was not given much importance by the national media.
Beena Sarwar (@beenasarwar), a journalist, artist and documentary filmmaker, observed:
@BeenaSarwar: So how come no TV channel in Pakistan (except PTV World) gave live coverage to #Malala's speech in the UN yesterday?
Ammar Aziz (@Ammar_Aziz), a left-wing documentary filmmaker and founder and director of SAMAAJ, lamented:
@ammaraziz: It's a pity that our 'free media' didn't bother to braodcast #Malala's speech live - they only showed that in parts later. #Pakistan
Also to mark Malala's 16th birthday, her father joined a Grammy Award-winning producer to release the song "I am Malala" to support the education and empowerment of girls in Pakistan and around the world.
Not everyone on social media responded positively to the celebrations of Malala, however.
The Chief Minister of Punjab, Shehbaz Sharif (@CMShehbaz), tweeted one day after Malala delivered her speech:
@CMShehbaz Good speech by Malala!
Could have been better - seemed to be written for global consumption ( & tried to please everyone at home & abroad)
His comment was roundly criticized, and in the next few hours it was deleted.
Even worse on social media was a concerted anti-Malala campaign that was launched.
Since the attack on her last year, Malala has been called a drama and a fraud by many Pakistanis.
Hailing from right-wing ideologues, these people hold her as a CIA agent who is now a tool in the hands of the West.
Her pictures with US envoy Richhard Holbrooke were circulated by right-wing conservative political party Jamat-e-Islami on social networking websites, and party leader Samia Raheel Qazi tweeted the pictures and called Malala and her father CIA agents.
A Facebook page Josh e Junoon (Tsunami of Imran Khan) with 127,000 likes shared a poster maligning Malala and rejecting that she was attacked by Taliban:
Facebook hate campaign against Malala
" The eighth wonder of the world: Malala.
This is the first neurosurgery in which they didn't shave her head.
These are first Talibans who fired with Klashinkov but the bruise was of air gun.
First patient of neurosurgery that asked for pen and paper after coming to senses.
"Where am I" First gunshot of the world that didn't leave a hole but the bullet got to our media's mind.
And who doesn't agree to this story is enemy of humanity."
Anti-Malala tweets were comparing her and the victims of drones attacks in Pakistan.
Fawad Khalid (@FawadKhalid), an electrical engineer and Scottish Tech Award winner, tweeted:
@FawadKhalid: If Malala really was representing #Pakistan , why did she forget about Drones attacks which spreads terrorism & why did she forget Afia ?
@IbneBattuta, a blogger from Kashmir, wrote:
@IbneBattuta: Opportunism for many is now Malala'ism.
Bake your cookies while the drones are away.
Faiza S Khan (@BhopalHouse), the editor of Random House India and a blogger, tried to talk some sense into those criticizing Malala's silence on drones:
@BHopalHouse: Just to remind people - A DRONE DID NOT LAND ON MALALA.
SHE WAS SHOT BY THE TALIBAN.
DRONES NOT ACTUALLY PAK'S ONLY PROBLEM.
NOT EVEN CLOSE.
Mohsin Sayeed (@MohsinSayeed), a Pakistani journalist, turned the tables on those same critics:
@MohsinSayeed: To all those who are droning about drones while maligning and condemning Malala: What have you done about drones apart from droning on?
Saad Hamid (@SaadGH), TEDx Ambassador to Pakistan and curator of TEDxIslamabad, described the experience of being openly in support of Malala on Facebook:
@SaadGH: Talking in support of Malala's message on Facebook is like inviting a pack of wolves to attack you and eat you alive.
@shehrbano: My Facebook timeline is nauseating.
The only thing worse than the Taliban are the 'para likha jahils (educated illiterates)'.
Malala, we are with you
Zainab Imam (@zainabimam), a journalist and blogger, summed up the situation on her blog Gulaab Jamun:
Yes, a key takeaway is that Malala and her family has been maligned because she was attacked by the militants we so love to please.
But here is another deeper problem that it points to: the bias against women so strongly ingrained in our heads that our nation can hardly believe in a confident woman who actually wants the best for this country.
In Pakistan, you cannot be a well-wishing female citizen until you’re acquiescent and respectful of “social norms” no matter how much they pull you down.
Ajmal Jami, a journalist, wrote on the blog Laaltain :
Your enemy country India and the US and also the experts from all over the world paid tribute to Malala. And called her a pride for the whole world.
There would be hardly any country where she is not popular.
Four million children from around the world signed to strengthen the cause of Malala. But the Mullah in the country from which this girl belongs to declares her "conspiracy".
When arguments and logic ends then everything looks "conspiracy".
South Korea's Military Culture Under Scrutiny After Teen Boot Camp Deaths · Global Voices
Five high school students drowned to death at a private seaside boot camp in South Korea, igniting discussions over the prevalence of military-style booth camps as well as nostalgia for the military culture in Korean education.
In South Chungcheong Province, five students died during the three-day military-style boot camp in which instructors forced students to take off their life jackets and jump into the sea in late afternoon.
Among 23 students caught by a strong current, five went missing and their bodies were discovered the next day.
Before the official funeral was held on July 24, 2013, the victims' classmates posted a short video expressing their condolences on YouTube (English subtitles not available):
Police later found out that some instructors were unqualified part-time hires just for the busy summer season.
Furthermore, the boot camp has misleading used the marine corps's name, despite they have no link with the armed forces.
Although immediate reactions to the tragedy were focused on criticizing the lax safety and flawed operations of unauthorized boot camps, bloggers and Twitter users later expressed concerns about the prevalence of military culture in Korean education that stomps on students creativity and individuality and hinders the democratic decision-making process.
Military-style boot camps is one of the most popular options for seasonal activities in many Korean schools and 'Gyoryeon' , or practical military training for kids, had been one of the mandatory subjects for high school students for about three decades.
The subject was downgraded to an optional subject in 1997 and officially disappeared from the school only last year.
Image of Boot Camp in South Korea.
Unrelated to the camp responsible for the accident.
Image by Flickr user @fast8000 (CC BY-NC-SA 2.0)
@blu_pn: After the Marine boot camp accident happened, so many people expressed utter shock toward boot camps and their self-discipline by extreme training.
But do you remember?
When I was a kid, I had a military training named 'Gyo-ryeon' as a part of my formal education.
And in the morning announcement hours, we lined up into a military formation and made military salutes to our principal.
Prominent blogger Impeter traced backed the long history of military culture in Korean modern education:
In 1969 the government made 'Gyoryeon' into a mandatory subject in order to raise public awareness of national security and to be better prepared for wartime.
Most students, without further thinking, just accepted it as one of those subjects learnt in schools, but if you really think about it, it is quite horrible situation.
It reflects that the government had thought of dispatching even high school kids to a war zone when war broke out.
Since they wanted to make soldiers out of high school kids, schools started enforcing those kids to have military spirit and adopted almost the same corporal punishment used in the army The biggest problems in our education is 'students need to obey even the wrong orders' which was born during the Japanese colonial era- Japanese colonial government had turned Chosun dynasty's kids into boy soldiers by injecting militarism in education.
And this tradition survived as Korean military authoritarian regimes took power , leaving traces of militarism in our schools.
Kim Yong-Taek, who spent his entire lifetime as an educator, wrote this analysis in his education blog:
There is a saying that the army makes someone into a real man.
Some parents even happily say 'my son, an unruly brat who used be so disrespectful to his own parents, has became another human being once he served in the army' HOWEVER, is that true?
It is natural for a spoiled kid turning into a more mature human after they were separated from their parents.
If there is any real change made by the army is that 'a naive young man has turned into a obedient person who succumbs to violence' Democracy creativity and individuality and communication and criticism, and it is very different from the military culture.
Under military culture, which takes place under extreme situations of confronting the enemies, strong physical strength and patience are a must and obedience to higher authorities is their only way for survival.
How a school, an entity that should guide students to become democratic citizens, injects the military culture into these kids?
This is an anti-democratic decision that disagrees with the spirit of real education.
China: WeChat Spy · Global Voices
China Digital Times has collected another case on the spying of WeChat message, a smartphone messaging application and is now the world’s fifth most popular one.
The latest case shows that the police is actively spying on a reporting group that shares news information.
Protests Called for Brazil's Independence Day · Global Voices
Brazil is getting ready for the celebration of Independence Day, September 7, 2013, with the massive protests of June and July still in mind.
More than 400,000 people have confirmed on Facebook their intention to participate in the protests that will take place in about 150 cities.
The Facebook page that gathers information about each city is called "the biggest protest in the history of Brazil".
The hashtag #OperacaoSeteDeSetembro (Operation September Seven) is already trending on Brazilian Twitter and #VemPraRua (Come To The Street) is also being used.
Syrian Creativity: Radio SouriaLi Broadcasts over the Internet · Global Voices
This post is cross-posted from Syria Untold and translated by Global Voices Arabic.
Because "necessity is the mother of invention", as the Arab saying goes, Syrians continue to devise creative and innovative solutions to the daily obstacles they face, despite extreme repression.
Radio SouriaLi, formed by a group of young Syrians from diverse backgrounds, is one of the many projects and initiatives emerging from the need for expression and the attempt to reach out to all Syrians, regardless of their ethnic, intellectual and religious backgrounds.
The name "SouriaLi" comes from a play on the words "sourialia" (surrealism) and "Souria lee" (which translates to My Syria from Arabic) to combine awareness of Syria's chaotic present, that has become surreal, and the need for all Syrians to get involved in the building of their own Syria.
Souriali started broadcasting in October 2012 as an internet-based radio, in an attempt to bypass censorship and reach out to the largest number of Syrians, both within and outside the country, despite their limited resources.
The fact that the project is internet-based has not prevented those running it from facing constant challenges in order to continue to broadcast.
Syrian authorities have repeatedly blocked their website inside Syria, including SouriaLi keywords on search engines, which has forced their audience to use circumvention technology to access their content.
Additionally, as most of the SouriaLi team is within Syria, constant disruptions to power supply and internet connections make their daily work increasingly difficult.
Radio Souriali
None of the obstacles have stopped them from broadcasting.
In the words of one of the founders:
"We speak so that we can breathe.
We speak to everybody and we listen to everybody.
We try to stay positive until the day comes when we become what we want to be.”
“We believe that our problem is that we don't listen to each other.
Our message isn't aimed at any one group over others, rather we try to reach every Syrian heart and especially those of the so called "silent majority".
The Souriali team tries to address all the different groups that form the fabric of Syrian society, and to draw attention to a diversity of issues - from art, culture and traditions to women's rights and the rights of minorities such as the Kurdish people.
SouriaLi is one of the many steps on Syria's path to its dream of a country respectful of justice, freedom, and fundamental human rights.
This post is cross-posted from Syria Untold and translated by Global Voices Arabic.
Mozambique women's basketball reaches new heights · Global Voices
Following a thrilling victory in the quarterfinals (see our coverage), last night the Mozambican women's basketball team won a place in the Afrobasket Finals tonight against reigning champions Angola.
With yet another comeback-style victory over Cameroon in the semifinals, they are also guaranteed a place in the World Championships, and in the nation's sporting history.
Where Parody Ends and Politics Begin: Comedians Running for Office · Global Voices
Homens da Luta at Optimus Alive music festival, 2011.
Photo by José Goulão on Flickr (CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)
The well-known musical parody group Homens da Luta (Men of Struggle) from Portugal have turned their Facebook page, with more than half a million followers, into the online front of an electoral campaign for this year's municipal elections.
Now, one of the two brothers who lead the band, Nuno Duarte "Jel", the nickname can be read as "hair gel", is running for mayor of Cascais, one of the richest municipalities in Portugal, a coastal city just 30 kilometers west of the capital of Lisbon.
While the band mobilized and entertained masses in Portugal, for some critics, like João Silva Jordão, the "false resistance" of Homens da Luta has been a symbol of "the decay of the political class" and one of the factors that has helped "the Portuguese people to remain in a dizzying state of apathy":
None of the candidates has discussed in depth the 'myth of governability', ways of neutralizing the influence peddling, patronage, ways to overcome the 'politics of events' and - even worse - each candidate presented himself as an event in him/herself.
Still, in Portugal Homens da Luta, or Cascais na Linha (Cascais in the line, or in order, a play with words) as their Facebook page has been renamed to follow the motto of the independent candidacy, have turned a bit more sober and are doing what they can to convince voters without forgetting the cheer.
Posts on their Facebook wall often attract hundreds of reactions.
They create short videos presenting their ideas for the city, mixing humour with some concrete proposals that they promise to realize if elected.
The vote will take place on September 29, 2013 in Portugal.
About 1,500 candidates are running for 308 municipalities.
Brazil Becomes Hot Market for Surveillance Technology Ahead of World Cup · Global Voices
Giants of the surveillance sector get contracts in a number of Brazilian cities during the games of 2014 - from security scanners to remote tracking software.
Photo: Agência Pública
This article, written by Bruno Fonseca, Jessica Mota, Luiza Bodenmüller and Natalia Viana, was originally published on September 6, 2013 by Agência Pública as part of its #SpyFiles3 special coverage.
Shortly after being informed of US National Security Agency (NSA) spying, President Dilma Rouseff asked ministers Paulo Bernardo (Communication) and José Eduardo Cardozo (Justice) to include in the Marco Civil da Internet, a charter of Brazilian Internet users, a mechanism that allows the suspension of operation of companies that cooperate with international spying schemes.
"It could apply to banks, or telephone companies," said the Minister of Communication.
But the security of sensitive data could also be guaranteed by multinational surveillance companies, given that a large part of the increasing demand for surveillance in the World Cup will be supplied by sector giants - the same companies that provide equipment and software to police forces all over the world, including the American government and the NSA.
Most of them are mentioned in the recent publication by Wikileaks, part of the Spy Files 3 project, a compilation of 249 documents from 92 companies, among them brochures, contracts and metadata referring to some of the business leaders of the sector.
They show that, in relation to mega-events, Brazil has become priority for the global surveillance industry.
The Extraordinary Secretariat for Large Events (SESGE) has been acquiring a number of technologies for public security.
Two hundred million Brazilian reais have been spent on national-level contracts.
And the industry of surveillance equipment is betting heavily on taking advantage of this opportunity.
In recent years, a number of industry fairs have taken place in the country.
When surveillance specialists get together
In July, in Brasilia it was ISS World's turn, bringing together policy, security officials and intelligence analysts for training in legal interception, high tech electronic investigations and networked data collection.
Financed by the biggest in the sector, like Gamma Group, Hackingtean, Cobhan Surveillance, Hidden Technology, GlimmerGlass and the Brazilian firm Suntech, the directors of these companies lead workshops.
For example, some courses taught participants how to use social networks as open sources in criminal investigations, or how to better use Facebook: from security on Facebook through to retention of data and interaction with security forces.
Another training, given by the firm Group 2000 Netherlands, looked at the how interception of data works at a national level, combined with LBS (location-based service) - a computer programming service that allows for inclusion of place and time in a system as it is used.
The firm IPS also featured social media and webmail: the architecture of Big Data for mass interception, beyond the course on "expert intrusion" of social networks and webmail.
The Brazilian company Suntech, which is now part of the American group Verint, funded a whole day of training, with special focus on interception of telecommunications.
Beyond the ISS, the LAAD (Latin American Aerospace & Defence), one of the main fairs of security and defense companies in Latin America, has been held in Brazil since 1995, with support from the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Justice.
In recent years, mega-events have been the principal focus of this fair, home for a great deal of business in the sector.
In 2011, for example, the Ministry of Defense announced a project for the Integrated Border Monitoring System (SISFRON), based on a network of sensors interlinked with control and command systems.
The military wanted to accelerate the construction of the system because of the World Cup and the Olympics.
The estimated cost, $6-7 billion reais , enthused international markets.
The reason: in spite of national firm Embraer being given the construction of the system, the Saab Group of Sweden, made it be known that its German subsidiary MEDAV will supply, as a subcontractor, the mobile and static sensor systems for the program, allowing for the monitoring and identification of HF, VHF, and UHF frequencies.
This year more than 30,000 visitors attended LAAD, which hosted 720 exhibitors from 65 countries, among those present representatives from the Ministries of Defense of the Ukraine, United Kingdom, Argentina and South Africa.
In 2014, year of the World Cup, a smaller version, only on security, is set for April 8-10, in Riocentro. Look out for the second part of this report, coming soon.
Putin's Kiss: Redux · Global Voices
“Everything will be fine... don't be sad!” Putin advised the boy.
The little boy kept pestering Putin, and pulling on his sleeve throughout the meeting.
Finally, Putin turned back to the boy, said "I understand, here, let me kiss you," and gave him a smooch on the cheek.
again with kissing children
where is Mirzulina looking, man?!
It’s a disgrace.
Mizulina is the sponsor of the federal law outlawing "homosexual propaganda."
Another user jeered:
Vova is a pedophile.
Some Russians still equate homosexuality with pedophilia.
The rumor that Putin "likes children" was actively spread on the internet after the "stomach" incident.
One compared Putin’s kiss to a werewolf bite, one that would eventually turn the victim into a second Putin:
he bit a child!
Now, every night, as soon as the moon rises, the child will start stealing money, secretly transferring property ownership to himself, and injecting himself with botox
Still another mocked: Did the kid tell Putin: “Butcher”? Another joked:
The child, in fact, did not say “dam”, but “pay us”. "] (this pun can also be interpreted as "pay Na", or "plati Na" ("pay up f*cker"))
Another comment was tongue-in-cheek:
maybe the kid has problems with diction?
In the end, such jokes are mean-spirited, exploitative, and not very constructive.
But, for some Russians who feel they no longer have a voice in their country, jeers and spite seem to be the only recourse left.
Russia's True Symbol: A Chechen Mosque? · Global Voices
"Heart of Chechnya" mosque in Grozny, Chechnya, photo by Andre Maiakinfo, 17 October 2008, CC 3.0.
The second round of a contest to choose ten lesser-known Russian tourist attractions (and replicate them in a Moscow park) turned violent on Saturday, August 31, 2013, when a crowd in Grozny began egging select telecoms offices.
The contest, sponsored by Russia’s main television station and the Geographical Society, began innocuously enough in July with limited interest and even less participation.
However, in August, the head of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, began posting photos on his Instagram account of the main mosque in Grozny, encouraging his followers to vote.
As the second round of the contest came to a close, the tallies were neck-and-neck between Kadyrov’s mosque and the Kremlin in Kolomna (located 60 miles southwest of Moscow).
The “Heart of Chechnya” mosque narrowly lost, and almost immediately Kadyrov posted a black-and-white photo of the mosque on his Instagram account with the following message:
This is why we told them that this is nothing but blatant fraud.
Moreover, we cannot rule out that these are artificial barriers to prevent the Heart of Chechnya from taking first place.
Blogger Oleg Kozyrev titled his post on the scandal “Chechnya is for fair elections,” and wrote:
If you are for fair elections - help those who are fighting for them, don’t help those who destroy elections.
However, many Russians did not even know that the Russia 10 contest was taking place.
One commenter on Kozyrev's blog responded confusedly:
What is this?
What are you talking about?
Another of reader noted:
Let’s face it!!!
Rioter-Chechens are not for fair elections, but are for the victory of their candidate (in this case—the mosque), at any cost)))
Another wanted to know where the money had come from that enabled people to vote (as votes by SMS cost 3.54 rubles each):
I am more interested about which budget was used to pay the cost of nearly 40 million text messages from Chechnya.
I very much doubt that all Chechens were in such a rush that each sent a few dozen text messages for Kadyrov.
Meanwhile, blogger Oxana Volva complained :
The Symbol of Russia for most is maybe a bear, a matryoshka doll or, at worst, a balalaika, but not the main symbol of Islam, and this already, my friends, is an undisguised appeal to occupation and Islamization, of which Kadyrov is clearly not “shy."
One reader wondered:
And now a simple question: whose idea was it to include a mosque in the list of Russian symbols?
Who started the blatant and obvious provocation?
Blogger Alexei Freeman called the egging of the mobile operators’ Grozny offices a “pogrom” and noted:
In fact, these actions fall under the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation, but, as you know, not all of the laws of the Russian Federation apply to the territory of Chechnya.
He also pointed out that the issue was with all mobile phone operators, not just Beeline and Megafon.
An interesting point: the problems with the SMS processing were from all companies, but only “Beeline” and “Megafon” were under fire.
It is obvious that Kadyrov is trying to remove these companies from the market, which are not under his control.
Popular blogger Ilya Varlamov admitted that he, too, was unaware of the Russia 10 contest, but was was quick to dismiss the contest.
Sharing a photo of a building site at Moscow State University that contained a fence, a couple of outhouses, and a guard shack, Varlamov joked:
The true symbol of Russia is neither a mosque nor a Kremlin.
The symbol of Russia is a fence, an outhouse, and a guard, watching over a stone.
All the rest is vanity.
The Russia 10 website, for its part, posted a message on Monday, September 2, announcing a delay in the third round of voting, as it undertakes an audit of the second round.
How Russians Read Putin's NYT Op-Ed on Syria · Global Voices
Vladimir Putin, 16 July 2013, Kremlin press service, public domain.
It’s not every day that the Russian President pens an opinion piece in the New York Times, but it happened yesterday, and the American blogosphere promptly lost its collective marbles, as tweeting journalists and surprised ordinary Internet users stumbled over each other to react.
In the aftermath of local and regional elections, most Russian bloggers seem to be too preoccupied with domestic issues to take much interest in what Putin had to say to Americans.
But not everyone has ignored the story, and many RuNet users have hailed the President’s overture as something of a needed display of Russian moral authority on the world stage.
Within hours of its publication on the New York Times’ website, the online translation portal inoSMI.ru posted a Russian language version of Putin’s article.
At the time of this writing, the translation has attracted 476 comments, the majority of which express positive responses.
User Skuter, for instance, writes:
did the right thing.
The majority of Americans understand all this and admit it.
Now let not just the Americans know it, but let Obama know what the Americans know.
I don’t think it’s going overboard.
And bombobama owes Putin a bottle of whiskey for saving face... and maybe his life...
Another user called zapravdu writes, with a tinge of 9/11 conspiracy theory:
A magnificent piece, and all the better that the American people heard it, since it’s always the exact opposite message in their mass media.
Even when it comes to 9/11, many have only the superficial info.
Not everyone, of course, marveled at Putin’s eloquence.
User namik83 contrasted Russia’s nonintervention position in Syria with its willingness to engage troops in South Ossetia and then Georgia in 2008:
Very pretty words … but when Russia bombed Georgia, where were the UN sanctions they’re now talking about so much?
Echoing the sentiments of many in the LGBT community (whose patience with the Russian government has worn thin, after the recent wave of anti-gay laws), Anton Krasovsky (a gay Russian journalist who last year lost his job after coming out) asked on Facebook if Putin had homosexuals in mind, when he wrote that “God created us equal.”
On Twitter, there is evidence of a botnet celebrating Putin’s op-ed, tweeting laudatory remarks and using the hashtag "#PutinForPeace.”
Many of these suspicious accounts, like Vasilii Kuharev’s, post relatively infrequently, typically using hashtags involved in various pro-Kremlin campaigns.
(Mr. Kukarev’s account, for example, has been active four times since July 2013, once praising Putin , and three times criticizing prominent members of the Russian opposition, always using suspect hashtags.)
If the Russian authorities are behind efforts to promote Putin’s New York Times piece (and frame it as a public relations victory over the White House), the Twitter botnet is undeniably a primitive attempt.
But the bots aren’t the only ones on the Russian Internet trying to spin the story in this direction.
Stanislav Apetian, aka Politrash, is a pro-Kremlin blogger who also weighed in today on the President’s New York Times article.
Apetian collected dozens of positive reactions (as well as a few negative ones) posted to Facebook by random Americans, translated them into Russian with the help of a friend, and published them together on LiveJournal.
Apetian’s work conveys the same sentiments propagated by the #PutinForPeace campaign (pride in Russia’s apparent—and admittedly rare—public relations coup), without the phoniness of robotic retweets.
Ironically, it seems that the more effective strategy for promoting a positive twist on Putin’s article is the one that relies on American netizens—not Russia’s.
Chinese Rethink Capital Punishment after Execution of Xia Junfeng · Global Voices
The public opinion in China is in support of capital punishment.
However, many netizens reflect upon their stand after the execution of street vendor Xia Junfeng.
Offbeat China highlights the discussion.
Syria Untold: Raqqa Lessons, From Freedom to Creativity in State Building · Global Voices
This post is cross-posted from Syria Untold and translated by Global Voices Arabic.
For Syrians, demanding freedom has extended from struggling against dictatorship, facing murder, jail, detention and destruction of the infrastructure, to trying to establish a new foundation for the country that they long dreamed of.
Is it really possible to build from within all this destruction?
If anyone can achieve the impossible, it is Syrians.
They have turned the French students uprising´s slogans - "Be realistic, demand the impossible" - into "Be realistic and make the impossible."
After the withdrawal of the Syrian army from Raqqa in March 2013, the city suffered a tremendous power vacuum, especially in public services.
The streets were filled with garbage and remnants of the regime barricades.
A discussion was started by a group of 35 activists who had remained in the city, which led to the creation of a rally named “The youth of Raqqa”.
One of these activists, surgeon Ayman al-Khalaf, has explained to Syria Untold:
The poster reads : To people who love freedom, know that the factory of heroes is in Syria.
Source: Syria Untold
A week after liberation, we started discussing how to solve services problems resulting from the withdrawal of the regime and disabling its institutions.
We decided to establish the rally as a civil institution without subordination to any political, religious or military affiliation.
The rally adopted the role of the municipality, cleaning the streets, taking the garbage away from the city center, and removing the regime barricades.
In the words of Ayman:
“We have dreamt of living without this regime for so long.
Now the dream has come true, so we have to be responsible and turn the city to a real icon of freedom"
Inspired by their newly achieved freedom, campaigns were organized, such as the "Our Streets Breathe Freedom" one.
Activists distributed the revolution flag in all public utilities and streets, cleaned the city, neighborhood after neighborhood, covering the streets with creative drawings and graffiti.
Raqqa..:Lessons in state building
Activists also started the "Clean the National Hospital" campaign, which lasted until the city´s main hospital was cleaned from the debris of bombing and destruction; and the "I Will Not Leave my School" campaign aiming to rehabilitate schools so that children could continue their studies as soon as possible.
Activists at the I will not leave my school campaign
Activists did not forget Syrian refugees arriving from all over the country.
A relief kitchen was set to provide about 500 meals a day to refugees, despite the lack of bread caused by the shortages.
This led to the “Our Bread Campaign”, in which pieces of bread were distributed in small bags with a sign reading “my loaf is your loaf” and the saying of the Prophet Mohammad "None of you will have faith unless you wish for others what you wish for yourselves."
The youth rally also focused on Syria's children, who are suffering a dire situation since the beginning of the struggle.
Campaigns such as “Children´s right to live” aim to defend their rights and help them by engaging them in theatre workshops and other activities focusing on solidarity, cooperation and teamwork spirit, educating children on true values ​​that promote a new sense belonging to the country.
Other campaigns focus on Syrian prisoners of conscience, such as the April 7 "Free Behind Bars" sit-ins.
The sign reads: Freedom for the prisoner we don't know
Solidarity with other Syrian towns has also emerged in Raqqa, through campaigns such as the “Euphrates Candles of Freedom".
Through their work, the Raqqa youth are doing what the state institutions should be doing.
In the words of Ayman, the young activist and doctor:
“We will stay strong, because Raqqa is the capital of liberation and we will continue to work to keep the city live up to its name regardless of the process of militarization.”
Hungary's Justice System Slow in Fighting Racial Crime · Global Voices
It took the Hungarian judiciary five years to convict the perpetrators of the cold-blooded murders of several Roma in Hungary.
Four Hungarian men went on a rampage at the time, killing six Roma between March 2008 and August 2009.
On August 6th, a Budapest court sentenced Zsolt Peto and brothers Arpad and Istvan Kiss to life in prison for the murderous spree, while their driver Istvan Csontos received 13 years as an accomplice.
The four killers, who hatched their plans in a pub in Debrecen in northeast Hungary, are hard core football fans with links to neo Nazi organizations.
They showed no emotion as the verdicts were handed down.
Pressure put on Hungary's government by human rights activists and lawyers apparently brought results.
Hungary's National Bureau of Investigation (NNI), the country's central police investigation office primarily dealing with terrorism and other national security threats, has now reopened the investigations into a series of murders of members of Hungary's Roma community in 2008 and 2009, to look for investigators' failures and potential wrongdoing in the case, which caused the delay in finding and convicting the perpetrators.
They suspect that one or more conspirators in these crimes remain free.
Hungarian public prosecutors have demanded an investigations of the military forces invloved as well, due to suspicions that Hungary's military intelligence service helped facilitate some of the murders.
Hungarian Roma activist Aladar Horvath and others say these announcements represent "late, but welcome gestures" from the government to the victims.
Reactions of netizens have not abated since the verdict was announced.
Helene Bienvenu, a freelance photojournalist from Detroit now living in Budapest, commented on Twitter:
50 years ago #MLK was marching on #Washington.
Roma in #Hungary have a lot to go still @connellyandrew http://t.co/k4P4yh0GKN — Helene Bienvenu (@bienvenuLN) August 28, 2013
John Clarke, an activist in this field from Toronto, blames these events on political attitudes and mainstream society:
In a recent article on this matter, The Economist has called the Roma population "Europe's biggest social problem".
A writer from Cambridge, Kari Sperring, asks for more information as many on social media are questioning Hungary's democratic status due to the government's handling of this case of serial murders involving a minority group:
Hungary is no longer a democracy http://t.co/5nNNYOtWCb Anyone have any more detail on this, please? #antisemitism #Roma — Kari Sperring (@KariSperring) August 22, 2013
In the meantime, Hungarian Deputy State Secretary for Global Affairs, Péter Wintermantel, gave a speech at the Fourth Conference of the Hungarian-Israeli Friendship Association, which was held in Zalaegerszeg on 24-26 August.
In his speech, Wintermantel stressed that the Hungarian Government remained committed to fighting all forms of racism and anti-semitism, and would take all necessary action to prevent them.
However, research by Amnesty International suggests that hate crimes against Roma remain a serious concern in Hungary, while police lack the guidelines to thoroughly and effectively investigate them.
In a new report titled "Violent attacks against Roma in Hungary", data collected by Amnesty International shows how racially motivated crimes impact individual victims, communities and society as a whole.
It also shows how shortcomings in the Hungarian justice system hinder the prevention of and response to such attacks:
Jezerca Tigani, Deputy Director for Europe and Central Asia Programme for Amnesty International said:
Five years after these cold-blooded killings, Roma in Hungary still do not receive adequate protection from hate crimes.
This horrific case should have been a wake-up call about the continuous, often violent discrimination faced by the Roma community, but the perpetrators of such acts are still not being brought to justice.
EU Prepared to Impose Sanctions on New Member State Croatia · Global Voices
According to numerous Croatian and international news outlets, as well as the conversations brewing on social media sites, the European Commission is likely to punish Croatia in an ongoing row over extradition rules that has left a stain on the former Yugoslav state's first months as a member of the European Union and may endanger EU aid for border control improvements.
Sanctions would threaten the EU's aid program for Croatia, notably for border control improvements vital to the country's bid to join the bloc's passport-free Schengen zone.
As Global Voices reported, a few days before Croatia joined the EU on 1 July 2013, it changed the law to effectively ensured that veterans of Croatia's independence war, that are wanted in in other for possible war crimes, could not face prosecution elsewhere in the EU.
The European Commission, which acts as the bloc's executive, is expected to invoke an article in Croatia's accession treaty that allows it to impose punitive measures if standard EU regulations are broken.
The so-called safeguard clause, Article 39 of the Croatian accession treaty, will be triggered, which provides for the introduction of punitive measures or termination of membership for Croatia during a period of three years after the country's accession to the union.
"Patience has run out.
We will likely move to trigger the safeguard clause," one senior Commission official told Reuters, speaking on condition of anonymity.
He said this would likely happen at the regular meeting of EU commissioners this week.
Commissioners of the EU Commission have supported the proposition of the Commission’s Vice President Viviane Reding to impose sanctions on Croatia, as confirmed by her spokeswoman Mina Andreeva and as reported Croatian portal index.hr.
The Croatian and EU flags on a Croatian government building; photo by Bogdan Giusca, used under Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 license.
Croatian TV Nova's correspondent from Split, Mario Jurič, tweeted:
Commissioners of the #EU Commission supported the prop. of Commission’s VP Viviane Reding to impose sanctions to #Croatia @VivianeRedingEU — Mario Jurič (@JuricNovaTV) September 16, 2013
Reporters Without Borders correspondent for Croatia Zeljko Peratovic, mocking the Croatian President Ivo Josipovic, said: Josipovic: There'll be no sanctions - Wrong! #Perkovic #CroatiaEU http://t.co/nDRCXR5zVr — Zeljko Peratovic (@45lines) September 16, 2013
Community manager for @vecernji_list Anton Smolčić was sarcastic: I think we just broke the speed record in having sanctions introduced. #win #eu #croatia
Reding, together with the President of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso and Commissioner Stefan Füle notified the panel that Croatia violates provisions of the European arrest warrant.
She, as reported, suggested that the European Commission impose sanctions on Croatia, which European Commissioners accepted.
Zagreb daily Jutarnji List published yesterday a statement by an unnamed high representative of the Croatian government who said that Croatia will persist in the position of a principled state and will not accept warrants by “arrogant” European politicians.
Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic said earlier that a proposition for amendment of the controversial law will be delivered to the Parliament in the first autumn session, but that it will be applied from mid-July next year.
Milanovic considers that certain criminals should be judged by Croatian courts, not courts of other countries.
Reding personally and via her associates repeatedly warned Croatia that it will be reprimanded for failure to comply with the Accession Treaty.
While Croatian President Ivo Josipovic, as well as Milanovic, believes that it will not come to sanctions , because Europe and Croatia have more important things to do now, the leader of the most influential opposition party, the Croatian Democratic Union, Tomislav Karamarko, believes that everything about the Croatian arrest law, colloquially called Lex Perkovic, is scandalous.
Drums of War on Syria Getting Louder · Global Voices
"The Revolutionaries of Manbij" in Aleppo, Syria.
Photo by Dona Bozzi.
Copyright Demotix, July 23, 2013.
The drums of war are getting louder as US lawmakers prepare to vote on a "punitive" bombing campaign on Syria.
Online, everyone has become an overnight expert on Syria.
Palestinian Iyad El-Baghdadi notes:
Isn't it amazing how everyone's conscience suddenly woke up when it comes to the horrible suffering of #Syria's people? — Iyad El-Baghdadi (@iyad_elbaghdadi) September 1, 2013
Syrian Mohja Khaf says she is against the war.
She reasons:
My axis is women& men of the grassroots Syrian revolution.
US strikes will not help their legitimate struggle for a free,democratic #Syria — Mohja Kahf (@ProfKahf) August 29, 2013
US strikes are not a magical bullet that will take out the Butcher of #Syria and save the day. — Mohja Kahf (@ProfKahf) August 29, 2013
U.S. strike is not a prayer-answer to the Syrian humanitarian crisis—it means more civilian agonies. #Syria — Mohja Kahf (@ProfKahf) August 29, 2013
Let no one deny the horrific massacres of Syrian civilians by assad, no matter what position one has on the imminent U.S. strikes #Syria — Mohja Kahf (@ProfKahf) August 29, 2013
Kahf reminds us:
No matter your position on US strikes #Syria, DO NOT DENY that young Syrians took to streets in genuine grassroots REVOLUTION.
Goddammit. — Mohja Kahf (@ProfKahf) September 4, 2013
And Syrian Amal Hanano adds:
Reminder: thousands of Syrians were killed for chanting: the people want to topple the regime. #Syria — Amal Hanano (@AmalHanano) August 30, 2013
Syrian Maysaloon is surprised with the double standards applied by different countries:
Saud al Faisal says that Assad's use of poison gas cannot be tolerated.
Funnily they didn't mind when Saddam used it #Pt #PotKettleBlack — Maysaloon (@Maysaloon) September 1, 2013
And Dima Khatib adds :
Just because someone doesn't trust the Americans doesn't mean he is siding with the Assad regime.
Stop exercising intellectual terrorism and obliterating others in the name of fighting for freedom
According to Michael Hanna, a war on Syria could last for years:
If we want to have serious discussion about Syria, we should begin with understanding that this war, on current trajectory, will last years. — Michael Hanna (@mwhanna1) September 2, 2013
From Bahrain, writer Ali Al Saeed tweets:
#Obama's message to evil dictators of the world: It's cool to slaughter your people as long as you don't use chemical weapons. #Syria #Assad — Ali Al Saeed (@alialsaeed) September 4, 2013
In an earlier tweet, he wonders:
How is killing 100,000 & displacing 2 million people is fine, but using poison gas on 1000 requires military strike? #Syria #SyriaCrisis — Ali Al Saeed (@alialsaeed) September 4, 2013
In Amman, the capital of Jordan, Ali Dahmash, witnessed an anti-war demonstration outside the US Embassy:
Just passed by the US Embassy in #Amman and there were a few 100 people peacefully protesting Obama decision to bomb #Syria - #Jordan #Jo — Ali Dahmash (@AliDahmash) September 1, 2013
Commentator Marc Lynch adds:
Saddest part of Obama admin Syria war push is seeing them peddling the same arguments they spent two years effectively smacking down. — Marc Lynch (@abuaardvark) September 4, 2013
While UAE commentator Sultan Al Qassemi asks:
Why do the Gulf States ($123B arms purchases from the US in 2010) & Turkey (Nato's second largest army) outsource their Syria war to the US? — שחררו את פלסטין (@SultanAlQassemi) September 1, 2013
And it's fine to be confused, says Ms. Entropy, from Egypt:
Unlike many of the instant experts on #Syria, I know only enough about the context to grasp my ignorance - itself enough to break my heart. — Ms. Entropy (@MsEntropy) September 1, 2013
Nairobi Mall Attack Inspires Two Online Tools for Emergencies · Global Voices
Also read: How the Nairobi Mall Attack Unfolded on Social Media and Global Voices Author Remembers Friends Slain in Nairobi Mall Attack.
On September 21, 2013, a group of suspected al-Shabab militants stormed Westgate mall in Nairobi, the capital city of Kenya, killing at least 61 people, six security personnel and injuring hundreds of innocent men, women and children.
Following the horrible attack, Ushahidi has come up with two tools for emergencies.
Ushahidi is a non-profit technology company that specializes in developing free and open source software for information collection, visualization and interactive mapping.
"Ushahidi", which means "testimony" in Swahili, was a website that was initially developed to map reports of violence in Kenya after the post-election fallout at the beginning of 2008.
The Ping app is a binary, multichannel check-in tool for groups.
The tool will help families, friends and companies to quickly check in with each other:
There was a consistent problem in every disaster that happens, not just in Kenya, but everywhere.
Small groups, families and companies need to quickly check in with each other.
They need to “ping” one another to make sure they’re okay.
It has to be something incredibly simple, that requires little thinking to use.
People have been doing some stuff in this space in the past, the best like “I’m Ok” are focused on smartphone users, but we have a need to make it work for even the simplest phones.
Our goal is to have this available for anyone globally to use.
The Ping App – a group check-in tool for emergencies.
Photo source: Ushahidi blog.
This is how the Ping works:
You create a list of your people (family, organization), and each person also adds another contact who is close to them (spouse, roommate, boy/girlfriend, etc).
When a disaster happens, you send out a message for everyone to check-in.
The admin sends out a 120 character message that always has “are you ok?” appended to the end.
This goes out via text message and email (more channels can be added later). The message goes out three times, once every 5 minutes.
If there is a response, then that person is considered okay.
If no response, then 3 messages get sent to their other contact.
We file each response into one of 3 areas: responded (verified), not responded, not okay.
Every message that comes back from someone in that group is saved into a big bucket of text, that the admin can add notes to if needed.
Another tool is Blood Donation Kenya, which is a crowdmap of all locations of blood drive centers.
The map matches blood location centers with people willing to help with donation, medical instruments or medical personnel.
A screenshot of a crowdmap showing blood donation sites in Kenya.
Image source: Ushahidi blog.
Erik Hersmann explains the logic behind the map:
One of the most amazing guys in Kenya in any emergency is Philip Ogola of the Kenya Red Cross.
He’s first on scene with great updates, but there’s only so much that one person can do.
Now, the Kenya Red Cross itself has been doing incredible work, but they have a problem with a lot of their stuff still being paper and pen (and there’s another group working on a locally hosted database system to digitize this without putting real people’s names online, run by Nivi of eLimu).
Another problem that they have is that the hospitals are running short on some types of blood, and are overwhelmed with others, as the Kenyan population comes out in full force to donate blood.
How can this be managed better, so that people aren’t turned away from some places and so that they know where to go for their type?
We set up a crowdmap deployment to map our all locations of blood drive centers, in an effort to match these areas with those willing to help at BloodDonationKenya.Crowdmap.com, either through blood donation, medical instruments or medical personnel.
Fuel Price Increase Divides Malaysia · Global Voices
Gas station in Malaysia.
Photo by Flickr user Sham Hardy (CC BY-SA 2.0)Malaysia’s recently announced fuel price hike has been met with quite diverse opinions.
On one hand, many feel that the government is putting more and more pressure on households and families as well as making the cost of living much higher due to a domino effect of price increases.
On the other hand, some feel that the current increase is reasonable given that Malaysia already enjoys huge fuel subsidies and has one of the lowest fuel prices in the world.
Plus, many believe that the savings from the reduced subsidies would be well spent as Prime Minister Najib Razak has announced that it will be channelled into the BR1M welfare fund.
Hoongling thought that Malaysians should learn to adapt to the changes:
Many people rant and blame everybody except themselves.
Petrol price will hit us sooner or later, with or without government subsidies and whether or not we can control the price or whether or not we are oil producing country.
There are so many ways to save petrol.
And we SHOULD save petrol not because petrol price will hit us but more for environment and a better future for our next generations.
Trav humorously agreed:
We all by all means should not feel enraged or pinched with forking up more money for fuel, and should instead look at the bright side of life.
After all, with the fuel hike, these benefits can be achieved:
- With higher fuel price means petrol heads and rempits will think twice to burn fuel during Saturday nights, which means you can have quiet romantic moments with your partner.
Don’t ever think of the word “I’m tired” excuse please.
- Crimes might go less!
Snatch thieves may resort to bicycle or manual running since it is too much to fuel their bikes.
Molotov cocktails will be too expensive which leaves arsonists to lose their jobs.
- The Selangor folks will have uninterrupted clean water since dumping expensive diesels/lubricants to rivers is not a good idea after all. - Encourages carpool!
Always want to know the cute receptionist girl in your office?
Ask her where she stays and offer her the ride to work.
Who knows she will become your wife which both of you can carpool for longer time.
Anil Netto was one of those opposed to the changes:
Malaysia’s middle- and working class are already squeezed by higher house prices (where are the low-cost houses?) while working class wages are suppressed by the policy of allowing cheap and more easily exploited migrant labour.
If you spend RM70 a week on petrol, you will end up paying about RM30 more a month.
Expect petrol prices to get more expensive as reserves of fossil fuels are depleted and non-conventional fossil fuels become more difficult and expensive to extract.
When will we we get better public transport so that we won’t have to rely so heavily on private motor vehicles?
Meanwhile, we appear to have made little progress in putting a lid on high-level corruption.
Hishamh argued that the fuel hike will have greater impact on higher income households:
The subsidy cut will disproportionately effect higher income households, not lower income households which spend a lot less on transportation (15.9% overall versus 12.3% for households earning less than RM3k per month).
Strangely enough, rural households will also suffer more than urban households (slightly higher portion of transport costs).
As to why cut and why now, average global crude oil prices jumped 5% in the last month alone, and are 15% higher over a year ago.
That’s well above the average the government was planning for in this year’s budget – if the deficit target was to be met, something had to give.
There were some reactions on Twitter as well:
#Malaysia: Save 13 billion by cutting petrol subsidies.
Lose 80 billion/annually or so from corruption. — Diyana Yahaya (@diyana_yahaya) September 3, 2013
Good morning, Malaysia.
Hope everyone had a good rest after a night of our least favorite national pastime, queuing for petrol.
Out of 227 countries, Malaysia's petrol and diesel price is the 8th lowest.
Want it cheaper?
You can always ride a bicycle.
On Facebook, a page 'Saya Benci Harga Barang Naik!'
(I hate the increase of prices of goods) have become very popular, with almost 70,000 Likes.
The cover and profile photos have been changed to reflect the rise of fuel prices, with many posting and commenting on the issue.
Hong Kong's Civil Disobedience Campaign Seeks Inspiration from Martin Luther King · Global Voices
U.S. Consulate General Hong Kong and Macau asked Hong Kong people "What is your dream?" on the eve of the 50 anniversary of Martin Luther King's speech "I have a dream..."
The anniversary of Martin Luther King's "I have a dream..." speech is on August 28, 2013.
Hong Kong local media outlets have given it quite large coverage because Martin Luther King's civil disobedience campaign has been widely discussed and debated among the society as a result of the call made by the city's democrats to "occupy Central" as a mean of struggle for genuine universal suffrage - the right of citizens to nominate and vote for the head of government in 2017.
What's more, Martin Luther King III appeared in an interview with a local newspaper, the Apple Daily News, and gave some advice to Hong Kong people: The key to success is to have faith and determination to carry on the action until the goal is accomplished.
The advocates of "Occupying Central" believe that civil disobedience is the best strategy to deal with the Beijing government which is in control of the interpretation of the Hong Kong's Basic Law, the city's constitution.
On the other hand, the pro-China groups label "Occupying Central" as a planned riot under the euphemism of "love and peace".
One of the anti-occupy central groups, "Speaking for Hong Kong", is headed by a number of opinion leaders and university professors who claim to represent the "Silent Majority" .
The group launched their anti-occupy Central campaign with a political statement using broken windows theory in major Chinese newspapers in Hong Kong on August 13:
Today someone has advocated occupying Central.
Such action is like throwing a stone at the society.
When the windows in Central have been broken, other windows will share the same fate.
We don't have shelters from rain and wind anymore.
Hong Kong people will suffer from the consequences.
Do we want this?
Can we accept it?
To prove that "Occupying Central" is harmful to Hong Kong, Chow Yung, a former radio host and an iconic figure of the anti-occupation group, argued in a newspaper commentary on August 14 that the campaign has violated Martin Luther King's principle:
The most beautiful non-violent struggle of Marin Luther King was the "March on Washington DC".
250,000 people from all across the U.S gathered around the Lincoln Memorial on 28 of August 1963, listening to the speech "I have a dream".
The action has led to the legislation of the Civil Rights Act and abolition of racial discrimination.
After the march, no occupy Washington DC had taken place.
The fact is that Martin Luther King, among other leaders had a meeting with President JFK soon after the assembly and the 250,000 protesters went home after a night of celebration.
He successfully struggled for the Civil Rights Act by meeting with President Kennedy after the peaceful assembly in Washington DC on August 28 1963 where he delivered his "I have a dream" speech rather than occupying Washington DC.
In respond to the group political advertisement and Chow's argument, Chan Kin Man, a sociology professor from the Chinese University of Hong Kong and an advocate for the occupying Central campaign wrote on August 16:
Before Martin Luther King cried out "I have a dream", he had faced a lot of attacks and accusations.
At that time, the Southern part of the U.S still had racial segregation policy.
A black lady was arrested because she refused to offer her seat to a white man.
Martin Luther King launched a bus boycott campaign to protest against the discrimination and urged his fellow Americans to walk instead of taking a bus for work.
The campaign lasted for 380 days and the bus company was at the verge of bankruptcy.
It also affected the work of bus drivers (both black and white).
The government and the church both attacked Martin Luther King for destroying the economy and creating conflict.
As the boycott violated the law, Martin Luther King was arrested and jailed.
In order to enact the spirit of equality, he had organized a number of "occupying actions" in Birmingham and was arrested 29 times.
Civil disobedience will create turbulence for the economy and society.
Whether the society is willing to take up the consequence depends on its value. he said that the biggest obstacle to the struggle for equality was not the Ku Klux Klan but the middle class who firmly embraced the superficial order.
The debate is an educational process for Hong Kong people and has served as an early celebration of the 50 anniversary of Martin Luther King's speech.
The question posed is "what is your dream", which was coincidentally posted by the U.S. Consulate General Hong Kong and Macau on its Facebook fan's page on August 24.
The Beijing government will definitely find most of the answers outraging.
Among the 654 responses, about 70% calls for independence of Hong Kong.
In the campaign page of "Occupy Central with Love and Peace" , one can see that Martin Luther King's dream continues to serve as an inspiration for the emerging civil disobedient movement in Hong Kong.
Thousands Reject Cambodia’s Election Results · Global Voices
Thousands joined a protest against voting irregularities in Cambodia.
Photo by Kimlong Meng, Copyright @Demotix (9/7/2013)More than ten thousand people participated in an assembly organized by the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP) to protest the alleged manipulation of electoral results by the ruling Cambodian People’s Party (CPP).
The ruling party won by slim majority after it took 68 seats compared to the opposition’s 55 seats.
It was the CPP’s worst electoral performance since 1998 which has been in power in the past three decades.
Casey Nelson shared what he observed during the peaceful assembly last September 7:
The event was very well organized.
Bottled water, bread, slogan emblazoned headbands, stickers and lotus flowers were available for all participants.
A medical station was set up and medics patrolled the edges of the park.
Organizers helped direct and control the crowd.
Walking paths and exits were taped off throughout the park.
At least within sight of the demonstration area, police presence was minimal and occupied primarily with traffic control.
Well more than a dozen "Human Rights Observers," some identifiable by their blue shirts, presumably from the UN, CCHR and other NGOs, roamed around and through the crowds.
I also noticed 4 or 5 foreigners in the crowd, participating in the demonstration.
Participants carried lotus flowers and flags and hand-drawn placards repeating the same 5 or 6 themes verbatim, most in both Khmer and English, including: "My Vote, My Life"; "My Vote, My Nation"; "Where is my vote?"; "There is Justice, There is Peace" and "We need an independent truth committee."
Rally in Phnom Penh's freedom park.
Photo by @RupertBAbbottOU Ritthy also attended the assembly in Phnom Penh’s freedom park:
I just left Freedom Park.
The number of protestors is about 20000- not decreasing but not much increasing either compared to previous mass demonstration.
The space of Freedom Park is NOT fully filled but many other people are standing and sitting on another nearby park, avoiding the given space/blocks at Freedom Park perhaps it is hot or they are NOT the protesters but just people who come to observe.
It is really a peaceful and nonviolent mass demonstration.
People are civilized, calm and responsible.
The opposition is calling for the establishment of an independent committee to probe the July 28 National Assembly elections:
We participants in today’s Non-Violent Demonstration have as our goals to render justice to our electorate, to demand the establishment of an independent committee with the participation of national agencies and the United Nations Organization to resolve disputes related to the July 28, 2013 national election irregularities.
This committee must impartially investigate the allegations of fraud in order to guarantee the respect of the true will of the Khmer People.
We adhere to the principles of Non-Violence in our activities, our words, our hearts; we do not consider any Khmer as an enemy; we want justice and lasting national reconciliation.
At Khmer Bird, Thomas Mclean interviewed Bun Bunnat, a member of the opposition:
We want these demonstrations to be a lesson to our next generation, that Cambodia demands a free society and a democratic community.
We want the international community to pay attention to the human rights violations that are happening in Cambodia.
We are Khmer we need to have our own voice.
Here are some observations on Twitter:
Party clearly prepped for international media.
Most signs bilingual and supporters ordered to hoist whenever photographer wanders over. — Abby Seiff (@instupor) September 7, 2013
Personally, I doubt tomorrow's demo will change anything.
3 hours of peaceful meditation to demand change, sounds naive to me. #electionsKH — Ate Hoekstra (@HoekstraAte) September 6, 2013
Political rally goes off without a hitch in Phnom Penh #Cambodia at the weekend.
However, more rallies planned for next weekend. — Hanuman Travel (@hanumantravel) September 9, 2013
Despite the protest, Cambodia’s election body proceeded to announce the official results of the elections confirming the victory of the ruling party.
The opposition has rejected the results and vowed to hold more rallies next week.
They also plan to boycott the opening session of the Parliament.
Sam Sotha believes that People Power should be advanced through elections and not through the holding of rallies:
Cambodian people do not need “Cambodian Spring!”
Cambodia does not need “People Power” through street protests, instead Cambodia needs “People Power” through the ballot box!
Meanwhile, various human rights groups are urging the leaders of the two major political parties to organize a political summit to address the election controversy:
The summit of the leaders of the two political parties and peaceful and successful solution responding to the desire of the people will set a good historical role model for the next generation of Cambodia.
'No' to Homosexuality, 'Yes' to Child Marriage in Nigeria · Global Voices
A man was beaten by members of the public in Kotodayo community in Ota in western Nigeria, on August 22, 2013, for allegedly being gay.
This came in the wake of a bill passed in the Nigeria's House of Representative on May 30, 2013, which criminalises gay marriage, same-sex relationships and membership of a gay rights group.
The man, known only as Sadiq, was whisked from the scene conscious but there is no information on his current condition.
President Goodluck Jonathan must approve the bill before it becomes law.
The bill, which was passed by Nigeria's Senate in November 2011, sets prison sentences of up to 14 years for offenders.
Ironically, it is the same Senate that approved child marriage in July this year.
Global Attitudes Project by Pew Research Centre shows that Nigeria is the least tolerant country in the world when it comes to homosexuality.
A mere rumour of being gay in the country can lead to violence and even imprisonment.
A map showing penalties targeting gays and lesbians in Africa.
Image source: http://ilga.org/
Homosexuality is outlawed in 38 African countries and it can be punishable by death in Mauritania, Sudan and northern Nigeria.
In February 2012, Uganda re-tabled a controversial anti-gay bill proposed by a Ugandan member of parliament, David Bahati, who claimed to to have dropped the death penalty and jailing of family members who fail to report homosexuals to the authorities in the new bill.
In the same month, the former Liberian first lady, Jewel Howard Taylor, introduced a bill making homosexuality liable to a death sentence.
Many African politicians and lawmakers claim that homosexuality is un-natural and un-African.
South Africa is an exception with a constitution, which provides the most comprehensive protection of gay rights in the world.
Reacting to the story of mob justice meted out against the suspected gay on Nigeria Eye news site, Mr Speaker made the following observations:
Mare allegation that someone is gay is enough to expose them to violent attacks in Nigeria what a shame.
I don’t think there is any law that will change the sexuality of homosexuals.
Human rights for all please.
On PM News Nigeria website, Naubiko wondered why the public should be so concerned with "myopic issues" such as homosexuality:
I don’t abhor gay pratice but is this what we should be bothering ourselves with .
When we should be making politicians lives a living hell we’re bothered with all sorts of myopic issues .
But Adeyinka was not convinced:
Gay is evil dont support it in any form.
Nothing concern politician here.accept jesus christ b4 it is too late for you.
On Twitter, Nigerian writer St.Vince (@vinzPaz) thought mob justice against homosexuals is sadistic even if homosexuality in illegal:
Come on guys, homosexuality is illegal in Nigeria but mob-beating them?
That's just sadistic. — St. Vince™ (@VinzPaz) August 23, 2013
Alexis Okeowo (@alexis_ok), a journalist writing about Africa for international media outlets, wished for a day Nigerians will get angry over anti-gay bills like they do with child marriage legislation:
The day Nigerians get angry over anti-gay bills like they have with child marriage legislation is when I'll permanently move to Nigeria. — Alexis Okeowo (@alexis_ok) July 26, 2013
The Nigerian Senate on July 18, 2013 upheld a clause in the Nigerian Constitution that defined full age to include any woman that is married regardless of her age.
Concerned Nigerians and activists opposed the move on Twitter using the hashtag #ChildNotBride created by Ayomidotun Fadeyi (@IAmAyomiDotun), a Nigerian visual storyteller.
In 2010, Ahmad Sani Yerima, senator and former governor of Zamfara State in Northern Nigeria, was accused of marrying a 13-year old Egyptian girl.
Yerima reportedly paid the girl's parents 100,000 US dollars in dowry.
Senator Sani Ahmed Yerima led the group of senators who opposed changing the definition of legal age of marriage arguing that certain religious traditions allow for marriage under 18.
Tweeting about the same issues of child marriage and homosexuality, Bar Baric (@Bar_Baric) wrote:
Our Western partner nations have been relatively silent about the child marriage issue in Nigeria, unlike homosexuality. — Bar Baric (@Bar_Baric) August 10, 2013
Eusebius (@IgbokweEusebius) is sure that Lagos will legalise gay marriage in the future:
As I see it, Lagos will be the first state to legalise gay marriage in Nigeria.
Mark my word!!! — Eusebius (@IgbokweEusebius) August 22, 2013
Homosexuality is deeply rooted in Nigeria, noted Pizzle Houdini (@thisisphd):
If u went to a boarding school,u will know how deep dis gay ish is rooted in Nigeria. — Pizzle Houdini (@thisisphd) August 22, 2013
Presidents, Oligarchs and Potash: Russia's Trade War With Belarus · Global Voices
Kerimov meets with President Lukashenko in March 2013.
YouTube screenshot.
At first glance, there are no truer friends than Russia and Belarus.
The two states are united by a common history and have strong ethnic and linguistic links.
Russia has long subsidized her neighbor with cheap oil and gas, which has kept Belarus' Soviet-era manufacturing industry from keeling over.
For Russia's Vladimir Putin, Belarus is a key linchpin in a new "Customs Union", a geopolitical block he hopes can become a major, Russian-led, international force.
Despite these close links, Belarus and Russia have had disagreements in the past, and their presidents, Lukashenko and Putin, are widely suspected to personally dislike one another.
The occasionally tumultuous relationship was strained further than usual on August 28 2013, when Belarusian authorities arrested Vladislav Baumgartner, CEO of Uralkaliy, a large Russian potash mining company.
He was detained after arriving to the country at the invitation of the Belarusian prime minister.
Russia retaliated by cancelling some of its subsidies and banning Belarusian pork imports.
Belarus shows no sign of backing down and has put out an Interpol warrant for Uralkaliy majority shareholder Suleiman Kerimov, a Dagestani oligarch and Senator with close links to the Kremlin.
Uralkaliy had for years been part of a profitable joint venture (many would say cartel) with Belaruskaliy, the Belarusian state-owned potash company.
Potash is Belarus' second most important export and a key part of its largely state-run economy.
Problems had arisen when the global price of potash had plummeted and both companies attempted to conduct business on the side without informing the other, further depressing the price.
Uralkaliy ultimately unilaterally withdrew from the consortium in July 2013.
Uralkali Potash Plant in Magadan, Russia, June 29 2011, Photo by ICT Group CC3.0
The affair has left many in Russia shaking their heads, as on the surface Belarus needs Russia more than Russia needs it, and any burgeoning trade war could have serious repercussions.
Many saw the split between the two large potash companies as evidence of a deeper conspiracy.
Writing on his LiveJournal, conspiracy theorist Nikolino saw Putin's invisible hand behind the whole affair.
After Baumgartner's arrest a host of experts expressed the opinion that standing behind the events in Minsk was none other than Vladimir Putin himself, deciding in this way to punish Suleiman Kerimov, for belonging to "Medvedev's" circle of Oligarchs… Those who possess a less radical point of view maintain that even if Putin didn't personally organise this situation himself, then at the very least he isn't going to try very hard when defending Uralkaliy's owners.
Nikolino referenced an article on IAREX , a Russian expat news portal, by Spain-based political commentator Lev Vershinin, who claimed Kerimov was "one of the main sponsors of the anti-Putin campaign between November 2011 and March 2012."
For the liberal clan, the worst thing in the post-Soviet space is Russia's reintegration with this post-Soviet space.
Not because this liberal clan hates the post-Soviet space, but because this clan serves the interests of global business, which first and foremost doesn't need a strong Russia.
Russia needs to be an already defeated country like Egypt of Libya or Somalia, so it can be exploited with little effort.
Delyagin went on to claim that the liberal clan of oligarchs was attempting to sabotage the Customs Union by sowing disharmony between Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko and Vladimir Putin.
Other Russian commentators took a more prosaic view of the affair.
Yaroslav Romanchuk, in a blog for Ekho Moskvy, chalked the issue up to Baumgartner's naivety.
Vladislav Baumgartner decided to play with Belaruskaliy according to the rules of the Russian marketplace, using the schemes which can be used even in the West for seizing an enterprise or a market.
He didn't consider that he wasn't so much playing a corporate game with Belaruskaliy, but a political game with Lukashenko.
Few netizens have much sympathy for Baumgartner, who faces a daunting 10 years in a Belarusian prison for actions that, as Romanchuk correctly points out, would not be considered illegal in the west.
Instead of indignation at Lukashenko's actions, many seem to approve of them, as a bold defense against Russia's oligarchs, still much reviled by the populace.
Kerimov may be one of Russia's rich and powerful, but judging by the Uralkaliy affair, few would shed tears if he ended up joining Baumgartner in a Minsk prison cell.
When Reality TV Meets Humanitarian Action in Italy · Global Voices
RAI 1, the flagship television channel of the national public service broadcaster and the most watched channel in Italy, is developing a humanitarian aid show in reality form.
The first episode is planned to be broadcast next 4 December 2013.
"The Mission", which is presented as a social experience, will show eight celebrities over two weeks working for the Italian NGO Intersos in refugee camps in South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Mali.
All of this will take place under the supervision of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
On the blog African Voices, Carlo Catteneo explained more about the premise of the show in a post entitled “Mission” by RAI 1. A time bomb?:
The goal of RAI would be to propose, through this social experiment, as a means of advertising the cause of the most excluded and the engagement of humanitarian workers in order to create greater awareness in the audience.
From the rumors collected production will not be focused on the suffering and desperation of refugees but rather on the positive and concrete commitment of humanitarian workers on the stories of refugees and the reasons for fleeing from their native countries.
Each episode of The Mission will be introduced by an accurate explanation of the social, historical, political and cultural development of each country visited in order to offer the public with adequate information and to avoid the spectacularization of refugees.
Laura Lucci, head of UNHCR Italy ensures that they are focusing on a program of information.
The presence of UNHCR will ensure that they are only collected the stories of refugees volunteers standing up supervisor of the right of privacy and personal freedom of each individual.
The increase of awareness and private story telling by refugees will help, according intentions of the promoters, to make public opinion more open and sensible on issues such as illegal immigration and the reasons that lead to the desperate search of a better life through the Mediterranean.
Cattaneo also published a copy of the official authorisation to shoot the programme from the DRC:
Many Italians - whether humanitarian or not - have already begun to criticise the programme several months before it is to be broadcast.
There is intense debate on the Internet. An online petition asking for the programme not be be broadcast has already been signed by more than 91,000 people. They agree that the show plays with the lives of the refugees, and downplays the consequences of conflicts.
The site Afriqinfos argued that the world of reality TV is about to cross another line by going to refugee camps in Africa :
Change.org and Activism.org have each launched a petition to cancel the broadcasting of The Mission: "How would you like to see your mother, who has survived unimaginable violence, becoming an object of ridicule as an extra on a reality TV show?" argues the first of these organisations.
In addition to the recurrent criticisms, notably relating to the celebrities' wages for the show , another argument against this show is that the celebrities chosen are second-class, B-listers or attempting a comeback.
As zaccunu09 writes in the article Sfiga Africa: ci mancava Albano (Poor Africa: Albano on top of everything else) of l'Espresso magazine :
I defend this programme, and I don't really understand what you see as negative: do you have a problem with me?
I don't understand why we are talking about reality TV when this is about reality.
It won't be a spectacle, but an investigation, an opportunity to highlight the issue of these people who are suffering.
Personally, I really liked the idea of going to a place where people have been abandoned.
I want to shine a light on the problem, to see what is happening.
People are continuing to die everywhere, but if we don't highlight the problems, what will happen?
While with Invisible Children's Stop Kony 2012 campaign, a great majority of African comments were negative, this time they seem to give a more nuanced view, particularly on Facebook :
Aragone Diger: Bringing refugees out of the shadows also means showing the destruction of war, and making people living in the countries affected, especially in Africa, more aware.
Renaud-Désiré Essoh Lath: Personally, I like that it shows that there is more to life than the Kardashians and that there are more serious issues!!
Following rumours that the show would be cancelled, RAI published an official denial.
Thanks to the debate it has started, "The Mission" has benefited from publicity that just can't be bought.
Abdoulaye Bah and Antonella Sinopoli contributed to this article
"In Damascus All is Quiet": Russians Report from Syria · Global Voices
In Russia, support for Bashar al-Assad's regime cuts across political lines.
Deep suspicions of Western motives for military intervention, combined with a domestic history of Islamist rebel groups, lead even the staunchest Kremlin opponents to see eye to eye with Vladimir Putin on the Syrian conflict.
For example, Maria Baronova, an opposition activist currently on trial for participating in a rally turned violent last year, tweeted this about the August 21 chemical attacks near Damascus:
Gentlemen, I hope everyone understands that the story with chemical weapon use is some kind of shady American scheme?
Baronova was likely getting her information from photographer Sergey Ponomarev, who was in Damascus during the time of the attacks and tweeted shortly after, questioning MSF reports of poison gas casualties:
@AltePute @ponny1 I've been to three hospitals, they told me there were no victims there. if someone knows which hospitals the MSF works with, I'd go there
Another Russian tweeting from Damascus was Komsomolskaya Pravda journalist, Nigina Beroeva.
She also doubted the use of chemical weapons:
@madoleroyer we were here, if the attack was so strong that 1300 people died, the gas would have gotten to us as well
Later, Beroeva cited a local source:
I talked to a man who lives with his family near the war zone. he says, there was no chemical weapons use. they would have felt it.
Besides for journalists like Beroeva and Ponomarev, who come to Syria on relatively short reporting stints, there are Russian bloggers actually living and blogging in the country.
Just like the majority of the Russian public, these bloggers support the Assad regime.
The most prominent one is probably Anhar Kochneva, a Russian-Palestinian woman living in Damascus.
Kochneva worked with the tourist industry before the start of the conflict, but quickly started writing about the war for a Russian audience.
She gained particular notoriety last year, when she was kidnapped by an alleged rebel group , spent 152 days in captivity, and then managed to escape on her own.
In spite of her rather negative experience with the Syrian conflict, Kochneva is eager to reassure readers about the stability of the regime:
Nothing bad is happening.
People sit at cafes and restaurants, go shopping and even visit local sights.
Let's tell the TRUTH.
And not do everything possible so that the world starts thinking that Syria is completely razed to the ground!
On August 29, when the world was expecting an imminent bombing campaign against Assad, she wrote :
You won't believe it, but all is quiet in Damascus.
People sit in cafes, walk the streets, and are far from a universal hysteria
Ponomarev also said that the country is basically "unchanged" since 2009, while jokingly extolling the virtues of armed conflict in driving down local hotel prices:
Downtown hotels €300 now cost $50-70, dinner for three with wine — $20
There is something strangely familiar to a Russian audience within this narrative — the conflict, when portrayed in this fashion, seems less like an all out war and more like the slow-burning violence in Dagestan and Ingushetia.
Yes, there are bandits/terrorists/rebels/jihadists but they are far away, geographically isolated.
Sure, somewhere people are dying, but 90% of the population aren't affected — at least until their summer vacation plans are derailed by military action near a resort.
This, Russians can empathize with.
Coercive Population Control in Three Villages in Northern Sri Lanka · Global Voices
Groundviews reports that women of three villages in Kilinochchi with a child under the age of five were summoned to Veravil divisional hospital to weigh their children and to receive a vaccination.
According to the report the doctors and nurses used coercive language and manipulated medical information to convince those women to take Progestogen-only subdermal implants (POSDIs), a long-term hormonal birth control.
Russian Political Prisoners Ignored by Everyone · Global Voices
Sergey Udaltsov, a leftist protest leader currently under house arrest pending investigation of his alleged planning of the May 6, 2012 Bolotnaya Square riots (the so-called Bolotnaya Square Case), exemplifies the popular saying: "out of sight, out of mind."
Prohibited from staying in close contact with anyone but his family and lawyers, he has struggled to maintain relevancy in the opposition movement ever since his arrest.
Udaltsov is not alone in his plight — the twelve men and women currently on trial for their involvement in the riots (most of them have remained in pre-trial detention for the past year) also appear to have been largely forgotten.
In an interview recently published in Novaya Gazeta, Udaltsov explained why people seem to have lost interest:
right now everyone is preoccupied with the Fall elections, the "Bolotnaya Case" is being stretched out, is broken up into several components, which isn't conducive to maintaining interest from the public and from the media.
Udaltsov called on protest leaders to combat this malaise, to "actively go to court hearings, conduct a strong information campaign" and "prepare for new rallies and marches of solidarity."
His complaint was echoed by Maria Baronova , one of the accused in the case.
Baronova, who unlike other defendants is out on bail, has been attempting to raise awareness through blogging, social media, and journalism, but feels that her efforts are in vain:
people , that of course there will be interest in the Bolotnaya Case, well, when there is a verdict.
Then, they say, "Bolotnaya" will do something.
For instance, write really great op-eds
Baronova's frustrations came to a head last Friday, when she ran into notorious internet troll Egor Prosvirnin in a Moscow bar.
Both were attending an impromptu outing organized by DemVybor's Stanislav Yakovlev (the list of participants , from ultra-nationalist Prosvirnin, to liberal journalists Ivan Davydov and Elena Kostyuchenko simply serves as a reminder of how insular and cliquey the Moscow political "tusovka" is, no matter how fractured it seems from the outside).
Baronova apparently asked Prosvirnin, who runs the popular nationalist internet publication Sputnik & Pogrom , why he hasn't covered her trial.
Prosvirnin's answer was either brutally honest or a cynical troll (your mileage may vary) — he doesn't care, and no one else does either.
Baronova tweeted quotes from their conversation, and later collated them into a Facebook post .
Prosvirnin spent the night telling her that the courtroom drama isn't popular on social media, and that it won't become a conversation topic until it is adopted by Alexey Navalny in his campaign for mayor (Navalny himself faces jail time in a political case):
- Writing about Bolotnaya Prisoners, - says Egor Prosvirnin, - you'll get 15 likes.
This is like battling windmills.
You shouldn't write about it.
- I won't write about Bolotnaya prisoners because no one f*cking cares about them (c) Egor Prosvirnin
- You are writing about a completely losing battle, because if Navalny becomes president tomorrow, people will forget about the Bolotnaya case even faster (c) Hedgehog
- The story of the Bolotnaya prisoners will have some meaning when Navalny starts covering it.
Before that, there is no point (c) Prosvirnin
If I was Baronova, I would come to Navalny's HQ and take off my top until he started writing about the prisoners (c) Prosvirnin
Baronova eventually left, saying:
On this note, our live coverage of Hell is over.
This was the best thing I've heard about the Bolotnaya case during the past year.
Many people have had these thoughts, but now they've been aired
The sad thing is that Baronova, who rather naturally finds the topic of her trial very personal, is probably fighting a losing battle.
If the fickle Russian public forgot about the much more memorable Pussy Riot case, just a month after their sentencing, what chance have the defendants who haven't danced in a cathedral wearing colorful masks?
Russia's Far East Beset with Toxic Japanese Cars · Global Voices
Vladivostok streets, by Núria Alonso, August 2008, CC 2.0.
Vladivostok, a remote city in the Russian Far East, is notorious for the many used Japanese cars on its roads, which are possibly the worst in the country.
Despite government campaigns against the right-hand-steering vehicles, locals continue to find ways to bypass the state's initiatives.
Many Internet users in Vladivostok have remained adamant that even older Japanese cars are superior to the models now coming off assembly lines in Russia. Some netizens describe owning a Russian car as a social faux pas.
As one commenter on the Russian Far East news portal Deita.ru wrote:
Sadly, even the Japanese not assembled in Japan are, to put it mildly ... of s**tty quality.
Again, when compared with right-hand-steering cars made by the Japanese for the Japanese.
Sadly ... they cannot take and implement their approach to work abroad without a loss .
After a deadly tsunami hit Japan in 2011, followed by the nuclear tragedy in Fukushima, the port of Vladivostok received a number of radioactive cars.
Two years later, radioactive car parts are still arriving in Russia.
Outrageously, Russian customs authorities have had to detain and send back to Japan over 930 radioactive cars since 2011.
Confronted with such problems, Vladivostok residents have gone online to swap stories and ask advice about the stream of toxic Japanese motor vehicles.
Web user Damir Gaifullin appealed to one forum in the following words:
Guys, tell me, has anyone had to deal with radioactive cars from Japan?
Maybe someone got a car at an auction and it turned out to be radioactive, and all his problems started here?
Some people responding to Gaifullin suggested shopping in auctions farther from Fukusima, in order to avoid any potential contamination.
Others argue that measuring the level of radiation before cars leave Japan is a better approach.
Unfortunately, it is apparently very difficult for Russians buying cars at auctions in Japan to run comprehensive background checks on vehicles, before purchasing.
Victor Jara: Music In Search of Justice 40 Years After His Murder · Global Voices
Photo by Gerardo Espíndola
On the night of September 15, 1973, Victor Jara was picked out of a line of prisoners being led out from the Chile Stadium to the National Stadium, another detention centre, in the days following Pinochet's coup.
It was the last time he was seen alive by anyone except the military. On the morning of September 16, his bullet-ridden body appeared alongside those of six other victims just outside Santiago's Cementerio General.
It took three decades for the Chilean justice system to identify the eight soldiers involved, and it is now requesting the extradition of one of them from the government of the United States.
It was weapons in the hands of members of Chile's military that discharged the 44 bullets that killed Victor Jara. But the folk-singer became a legend in his homeland; and today, 40 years after the massacre, he is a major icon for musicians and their fans around the world.
Just last week, in his first concert in Chile, rocker Bruce Springsteen interrupted his usual repertoire to sing “Manifiesto”, one of Jara's most emblematic songs. It was a tribute from one creative force to another, sealing once and for all the universal importance of the Chilean artist's work.
In an interview published by the blog Palabra Callejera , she indicated that: Rock was like the impetus moving things along...Victor was a great choreographer and he moved the action on stage and throughout the room, and that is the essence of rock; the essence I believe of the spirit of rock and roll that was created there. Universal Jara
Hundreds of Earthquakes on Catalan Coast Stir Protests Against Gas Company · Global Voices
Promotional image from the Castor Project website
Over 300 microtremors hit the northern area of Valencia and southern Catalonia the first week of October.
The quakes could be related to the recent injection of natural gas by the Castor Project , a submarine natural gas company found along the Mediterranean coasts of those areas. The injection is meant to convert an empty oil reserve into a gas storage facility.
The Spanish government has stopped the gas injection, which began a few weeks ago, until technical reports clarify the matter.
The company denies the injection caused the tremors, but ecological and political sectors view a direct relationship, and local online movements have begun to speak out against the project using the hashtag #projectecastor (Castor Project) on Twitter. The protests connect the injection practices with the globally controversial technique of fracking.
The Castor Project boasts an oil well 1,750 meters (approximately 1.1 miles) deep that stores enough gas to serve up to a third of the Spanish demand.
The project, which cost 1.3 billion euros (1.762 billion US dollars), was granted approval by a joint venture with the canadian CLP (30 percent) and the Spanish ACS (70 percent), a construction company supervised by Florentino Pérez, who also oversees the football club Real Madrid.
Even though the movement against the project emerged strongly after these possibly related quakes, some ecologists and politicians have already been warning against these same sorts of threats for some time.
On his blog, European parliament member and ecologist Raül Romeva noted that the concern over this gas company should not come as unexpected:
Perhaps there are some who have been surprised by the recent news related to the seismic movements that took place on the coast, in front of Vinaròs, related to the oil plant, better know as the Castor Project.
Nevertheless, we must remember that a long time ago, many people warned us about the risks linked to this kind of cultivation, and that their concerns were sent to the different institutions.
On Twitter, Juan López de Uralde, member of the political and social movement EQUO , warned of the consequences that a project like Castor could create and criticizes the Spanish energy policy:
Regarding #Castor on the Mediterranean coast.
Marcelino Domingo, head of the People's Party in Benicarló, announces on his FB profile that he'll order the cessation and dismantling of #ProjecteCastor
In an interview with the leading Catalan online periodical, VilaWeb , Lluc Ulldemolins, of the same Sénia Platform, shows the fears of uncertainty about the origin of the earthquakes, which continue even though the Spanish government assures that the gas injection has stopped:
—Yes, the company says they no longer inject gas, but the earthquakes have gained force.
And that's even more worrisome.
If we knew that there were tremors because gas has been injected, we would have the cause controlled.
But if it's true that the company has stopped injecting, and yet the quakes still continue, the situation is more complicated than we could ever imagine.
Who are we to believe?
We'd really prefer that the company lie, not to put them at fault, but rather to, at least, know the reason behind the seismic movements.
While the indignation and fear grow within the population, the natural gas company, according to some press reports , has begun to make arrangements to get rid of the grant and charge a compensation.
The company has the right to reverse the grant to the state and receive the net value as compensation, since the project was promoted by Ministry of Industry.
Join Us On "The Bridge" · Global Voices
Some of the people whose work you'll be reading on "The Bridge", starting October 10.
In July last year, at the Global Voices Summit in Nairobi, Aparna Ray and Nwachukwu Egbunike stood at the front of the long, narrow room in the building we'd christened The Giraffe House and posed the question: what if we expanded the writing on Global Voices to include “original” content?
In true Global Voices fashion, from their respective homes in Kolkata, India and Ibadan, Nigeria, Aparna and Nwach had been co-leading a virtual pre-Summit working group exploring the idea of going beyond our traditional style of “neutral” reporting.
To a roomful of Global Voices contributors from 60 countries their question was a provocation.
In the nearly nine years that Global Voices has existed, we’ve prided ourselves on being curators and facilitators of global citizen media, taking pains to report as faithfully as possible on what others are doing online.
Our commitment to neutrality has won us respect from journalists and researchers, along with a reputation as a trustworthy source.
Surely this should be protected?
“Neutrality—what's that?” quipped some of the more wry individuals in the room.
Others felt that introducing a more personal element into our stories could enhance our reporting.
In their presentation Nwach and Aparna had raised the issue of how difficult it was to construct stories around citizen or social media buzz when events were developing at dizzying speeds.
Perhaps this new style of writing could help us react more quickly to events.
Others worried about the world's bloggers: by making a shift like this, were we leaving them in the lurch?
By the end of a long debate the outlines of a decision had begun to emerge, to be confirmed some weeks later by a survey circulated among the entire Global Voices community.
We would create a new species of Global Voices article, clearly labelled and distinguishable from the other kinds of content, and corralled into its own section.
Tomorrow, October 10, we'll finally be unveiling that new section. We've called it "The Bridge".
Why "The Bridge"?
As anyone who’s ever created something—a new gadget, a startup, a Kardashian baby—knows, finding a good name is tough, though sometimes the best one is sitting right under your nose.
When “The Bridge” appeared among the torrent of names suggested during our community brainstorm, those of us who've been with Global Voices for some time slapped ourselves on the forehead and said: "Well—duh."
Bridges connect places, of course, enabling communication and the passage of people and ideas, but the word “bridge” also has a deep resonance in the history of Global Voices.
At the very first Global Voices meeting in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 2004 the Iranian blogger Hossein "Hoder" Derakhshan coined the term “bridge blogger” to describe a type of person emerging within the nascent international blogosphere.
The bridge blogger writes for a global audience, helping readers understand her place of origin in all its messy complexity.
There’s no shortage of personal essays, opinion and commentary on the web, and we wouldn't add to the supply unless we felt we could offer something of value.
One of the unique features of Global Voices is the astounding array of countries represented in our community—countries where most of our contributors were born and continue to live and work.
We believe there’s as great a need as ever for well-told stories about localities and communities not adequately or accurately represented by mainstream media.
Through "The Bridge", we aim to bring you ideas and conversations from people who have a genuine stake in the stories they’re telling—stories we hope will surprise and delight.
With that, we welcome you to Global Voices' "The Bridge."
Catalan Man Sentenced to Prison after Refusing to Speak Spanish · Global Voices
Carles Mateu, a man who refused to speak in Spanish during a routine traffic test in Valencia, was sentenced to six months in prison and had his driver's license revoked for disobeying authorities. "WE ARE ALL CARLES MATEU / Group supporting the driver sentenced to 6 months in prison in Valencia."
Poster from the group supporting Carles Mateu in the town of Alemenara (Castelló).
Mateu was driving his car in December 2012 when the Civil Guard, the federal military guard of Spain, stopped him for a routine traffic stop in Castelló (Valencia).
But he was detained for three hours by two agents, who accused him of refusing to submit to a breathalyzer test and of not wearing a seat belt nor a reflective vest.
Mateu, however, claims that these reports are false and the agents sanctioned him for speaking to them in Valencian, a regional dialect of Catalan that is spoken in the territory, and refusing to express himself in Spanish.
The Valencian language holds official status in the region along with Spanish, just as in Catalonia and the Balearic Islands.
According to online news publication La Veu del País Valencià , Mateu felt that the agents were displaying signs of "contempt" toward him and his language, using phrases like "speak to me in Spanish, we are in Spain."
Mateu was acquitted in January 2013, but the district attorney appealed and the sentence was revoked. At the same time, Mateu's previous countersuit against the agents' false accusations was thrown out.
The new sentence issued on September 20, 2013 condemns him to six months in prison and the suspension of his driver's license for a year and a day.
A victim turned into offender
The case has attracted much interest, both civil and political, along the Catalan-speaking territories, given that many view it as one more case of discrimination with linguistic motives, similar to those reported at music festival Arenal Sound last summer.
In an interview with Catalan newspaper El Punt Avui, Mateu explains:
"I, TOO, POSSESS THE FLAW OF SPEAKING VALENCIAN."
Shared image on Twitter from Alícia (@marclia), professor of Catalan at the University of Valencia. Mateu's lawyer explained to digital newspaper VilaWeb that the linguistic conflict is now considered Mateu's strategy for slowing down the breathalyzer test, which converts the victim into the offender. We are all Carles Mateu
Demonstrations of solidarity have multiplied online. A Facebook page, Jo També Sóc Carles Mateu (I, too, am Carles Mateu), collects messages of support. On Twitter, many users showed their discontent with the hashtag #TotSomCarlesMateu (We are all Carles Mateu).
Valencian journalist Amàlia Garrigós (@AmaliaGarrigos ) encouraged her followers to sign a petition on Change.org for Spanish security guards in the territory to speak in Catalan:
A Valencian driver sentenced for speaking in his own language.
Will you sign this petition?
I just did! #WeAreAllCarlesMateu http://t.co/g33L4XeCWK
Moreover, a group supporting Mateu was organized in his town of Almenara, and a petition on Change.org has gathered more than 11,500 signatures to demand the sentence be withdrawn. Political reactions Carles Mateu's case arrived at the Spanish Parliament thanks to the representatives Joan Baldoví of the Coalició Compromís (Compromise Coalition), and Joan Tardà , of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya (Republican Left Party) (ERC).
Baldoví said that it would be "barbaric" to send a citizen to prison for speaking his own language, while Tardà formulated many questions for the Ministry of the Interior.
Ramon Tremosa, a member of the European Parliament representing the Catalan moderate right-wing ruling party, Convergència i Unió, reported the case to the European Commission with the support of opposition parties ERC and ICV-EUIA :
Now we will ask the European Commission about the sentence against Carles Mateu for speaking Catalan.
The undersigned: @ciu @Esquerra_ERC i @icveuia #WeAreAllCarlesMateu
Rising awareness to stop language conflict
Josep Escribano, president of El Tempir , a civic association for the language, encouraged people to report cases of linguistic discrimination to generate social pressure.
Escribano argues that the language supremacy of Spanish has allowed, over time, for Catalan-speaking people to interiorize their prejudice toward their own language, considering it of an inferior status.
But he remains optimistic:
More and more, people who are strong and have a linguistic loyalty, people who love the Catalan nation and love the Catalan language, are taking a step forward and reporting cases of this kind of discrimination.
By making these cases of linguistic discrimination public, citizens receive support from the entities defending the language and from the community, which facilitates the linguistic normalization and universal linguistic rights of Catalan's use.
Two Women Jailed After Kissing at Religious Rally in Brazil · Global Voices
Two young women were jailed by order of Brazilian congressman Pastor Marco Feliciano after kissing during the evangelical event Glorifica Litoral in the city of São Sebastião in the north of São Paulo on Sunday, September 15, 2013.
Feliciano, who is also a congressman and president of the House Commission for Human Rights and Minorities , stopped his presentation during the gospel festival, which bills itself as an "evangelical social-cultural week", to request the municipal guards and military police officers present arrest the two young women.
“Those two girls have to leave here handcuffed.
No use trying to run, guards are headed there now.
This here isn't palace where anything goes, It’s the house of God," he said into the microphone.
According to reports from those present at the event, while the women were being removed, the pastor continued to incite the crowd of 70,000 people against them.
The two young women, Yunka Mihura, 20, and Joana Palhares, 18, were taken by agents of the Municipal Civil Guard to the First District Police Station of São Sebastião, where the police chief filed the incident for investigation.
The women alleged other heterosexual couples were also exchanging kisses during the event, and that they were physically assaulted by the police.
In the blog iGay, they stated that they had already kissed a few times during the event and that nobody seemed to mind.
Yunka stated:
The event was public, paid for with our taxes.
That stage, that microphone, everything was with public money.
It was also an open space, on Beach Street.
It was our right to be there.
According to the lawyer for the two women, Daniel Galani, there was a conflict of rights during the event:
The online community "Moça, você é machista" (Girl, you are a chauvinist) published an image questioning the act which lead to the arrest of the two young women.
(Text reads: What's that??
A lesbian kiss is religious intolerance???)Photo: Facebook
We see it as a situation that got completely out of control.
We know there are two rights in conflict: one is the freedom of expression and the other the freedom of religious practice.
The two rights are constitutional and are prescribed so that people can make use of them.
In statements to magazine Revista Fórum, the director of the Commission for Human Rights of the Brazilian Order of Lawyers (known by its acronym OAB - Ordem dos Advogados do Brasil) in São Paulo, Martim de Almeida Sampaio, considered the detention “illegal” and added the young women “could have called for the pastor's arrest for abuse of authority,” had they known about the Penal Code.
Without giving interviews to the press, Feliciano used his Twitter account to talk about the episode, citing the Brazilian Penal Code to justify his actions:
— Marco Feliciano (@marcofeliciano) September 16, 2013
2) to impede or disturb a ceremony or practice of religious worship; publicly vilify acts or objects of religious worship:
— Marco Feliciano (@marcofeliciano) September 16, 2013
3) Punishment detention, 1 month to 1 year or fine. P.U. If violence is used, the punishment increases by ⅓, without prejudice to the correspondent violence
— Marco Feliciano (@marcofeliciano) September 16, 2013
The social network was also used against the pastor by opponents of his attitude.
Marcelo Gerald, an LGBT rights activist, associated the incident with religious fanaticism:
The right of religious fanatics is surpassing all acceptable limits — Marcelo Gerald (@mkGerald) September 17, 2013
And he stressed:
Regarding Feliciano I can only say he needs to be punished, NOTHING justifies violence used against the lesbians in a PUBLIC space, — Marcelo Gerald (@mkGerald) September 17, 2013
Congressman Jean Wyllys, an advocate for LGBT rights and one of the main opponents of Feliciano in the House and on the Human Rights Commission, was attacked on his account by various users.
He considered the arrest of the two young women to be an arbitrary act and stated:
These police don’t investigate charlatanism and the commercial exploitation of faith!
RT “@camilo_aggio: Have you seen this, Jean? http://t.co/4z1iZoO0Kl” — Jean Wyllys (@jeanwyllys_real) September 17, 2013
The video claims to reveal the truth about the imprisonment of the two girls by stating that the event took place in a "closed space" and that it got its support from evangelical churches on the north coast of Sao Paulo state, not from public money like activists have said. Then it shows pastor Feliciano repeating the same legal arguments that are quoted above: After becoming known thanks to racist and controversial statements, Feliciano is opposed by a good portion of the Brazilian political class since the beginning of his mandate as president of the Human Rights Commission.
At the beginning of the month, the Brazilian Order of Lawyers announced that it will request, together with more than 20 entities linked with human rights, the expulsion of Feliciano as well as Congressman Jair Bolsonaro, for inciting hate crimes.
According to the municipal government of São Sebastião, the case against the two women will be investigated by the inspectors office of the Municipal Civil Guard.
Ugandan Minister: Indecently Dressed Women Are Asking to Be Raped · Global Voices
A screenshot from the petition calling for the minister's resignation.
According to Uganda's Youth Affairs Minister Ronald Kibuule, women who are dressed indecently are asking to be raped, and suspects who have raped such women should be released.
He also said that in cases of rape, police should first ascertain the dress code of the victim, and if they were dressed indecently, they should also be charged with inviting the crime.
Kibuule made the comments in Kajara County, Ntungamo District on Saturday September 21, 2012, while attending the launch of Kajara Youth Development Cooperative and Savings Society.
The comments appeared on Uganda's newspaper Daily Monitor on September 24, 2013. The article, however, did not explain the context in which Kibuule made the comments.
The parliament has summoned the minister to appear before it to explain the comment he made last week.
Ugandan netizens responded in fury to the comments using the hashtag #Kibuule on Twitter.
Those calling for his resignation are using the hashtags #KibuuleMustGo and #KibuuleOut.
A petition on Change.org calls for his resignation:
By these words, Mr. Kibuule is promoting the rape of women based on their dress code; he is excusing rapists for their crimes against supposedly scantily clad women and; he is ensuring that victims of rape are afraid to come forward for fear of being persecuted for being raped.
He should lose his position immediately since he clearly does not represent the well being of his constituents.
Rosebell Kagumire (@RosebellK), a Ugandan online journalist, wrote:
4000 children in northern #uganda are defiled annually, I bet #kibuule thinks its because they were provocative!
Idiots in power! — Rosebell Kagumire (@RosebellK) September 24, 2013
Linda (@LindaNEK), a Ugandan businesswoman, ridiculed the minister’s moral authority:
#Kibuule is morally incompetent to give any substantial opinion on Moral issues esp considerin the fact that hes a Polygamist @DailyMonitor — Linda (@LindaNEK) September 24, 2013
Mark Namamanya (@mnamanya), a sports journalist, observed:
In most societies, the clown that is #Kibuule would be holding a resignation press conference today.
Sadly, Uganda is not most societies — Mark Namanya (@mnamanya) September 24, 2013
Gordon G Ananura (@NgabiranoIV) joined those that ridiculed the minister:
@Mr_Bata_ totally agree with you.
If you leave your door open and you are robbed, whose to blame for your stupidity? #Kibuule — Anthony J Kateeba (@TheBigPapaa) September 24, 2013
Teachers Strike and Protest on Spanish Balearic Islands to Defend the Catalan Language · Global Voices
The incredible Hulk protesting for public education. Illustration by Juan Francisco Mota.
After two weeks of an indefinite teachers' strike on Spain's Balearic Islands, more than 80,000 people have taken to the streets to demand the withdrawal of a new education decree that would trade Catalan-language education in favor a new trilingual model.
On 29 September, a "sea of green" , the colour representing the side defending public schooling in the protests against the cuts, invaded the streets of the Balearic Islands capitals to protest against the regional government, presided by José Ramón Bauzà (People's Party).
According to the Balearic Mathematics Society , in Palma more than 80,000 people demanded the withdrawal of the new education law under the motto "Call for quality education".
It was a continuation of the indefinite teaching strike that started on the Balearic Islands on 16 September, with more than an 80 percent of teachers participating , according to the unions.
The controversial decree proposes a tri-lingual education model (TIL), which displaces Catalan as the lingua franca in schools.
The protest declares that the government is using trilingualism as a front to weaken the local language.
At a delicate time for public education, threatened by austerity policies and constant cuts , imposing the TIL model on the islands, where Catalan is an official language as well as Spanish like in Catalonia and Valencia, was the straw that broke the camel's back.
Over the past few weeks, people from various cities in Catalan-speaking regions have come together. On Twitter, the hashtag #VagaIndefinidaDocents has become a global trending topic.
The government's point of view
In the face of the most widespread social protest during the current era of democracy on the islands, the government affirms that the strikers and protesters do not represent the majority of society, and it is adamant in its decision not to retract the decree.
Moreover, it is playing down the figures (while the unions speak of 80 percent of teachers participating, the education authorities record only 20 percent). The government is also threatening the striking teachers.
Antoni Camps , member of parliament for the People's Party (PP) and member of the Balearic Parliament's Education Commission, said in an article published by the Spanish newspaper El Mundo: It's convenient that the teachers who "show up" for the strike know that, up to now, the instigators of the protests, referring to the lazy trade unionists, are NOT unhappy with their salary on the days that they are on strike, but this year is going to be different.
Images shared by demonstrators showing a spirited protest: Spectacular photo of today's protest.
Green in Palma.
Bauzá, this is the silent majority!!!
Under the tags #29sTotsSomDocents , #Bauzádimissió and #alesillesencatalà , among others, show a support on Twitter that rivals what is seen in the streets.
The controversial decree
The TIL, which was passed in April 2013, establishes a trilingual teaching model where Catalan, Spanish and English are employed equally. This modifies the Catalan Language Immersion model that has been used on the islands for the last three decades.
During Spain's transition to democracy, normalisation of Catalan in schools was promoted on the Balearic Islands, like it was in Catalonia and Valencia.
The 1986 Linguistic Normalisation Law assures the recognition and the progressive use of Catalan as the lingua franca in education and calls on the government to guarantee that this continues. The trouble started in summer.
On 25 September, the government assented to reintegrating them, even though they remain expelled.
Up to now, this has been the only conciliatory gesture with prospects for the strikers. The Supreme Court of Justice received the appeals against the TIL from the unions UGT (Workers' General Union) and STEI (Union for Educational Workers on the Balearic Islands) in early September.
On 6 September, a judge ordained its preventive suspension , but hours later, the Executive approved the model by decree without parliamentary debate, and it was put into effect immediately.
Will cuts and trilingualism reduce school failure?
The government alleges that its model will contribute to reducing academic failure.
Many doubt this claim, such as Jaume Lladó (@datiljlj), a maths teacher, columnist and activist, who explains in an opinion article in the Catalan newspaper Diari de Balears:
Regarding the foreign language, it is also said that students can only pursue curricular subjects when they have reached a certain level of understanding.
On the other hand, students will not learn the language, and what is more, they will learn less of the subject or subjects in question.
If a student has problems understanding a subject in their own language, what advantage can introducing a new foreign language that they don't speak fluently bring?
Moments of solidarity
There have been many demonstrations of solidarity within the education community.
Teaching platforms, social and cultural entities, institutions and famous people from the rest of the Catalan-speaking regions and Spain have expressed their support for the strikers.
The same citizens have gathered funds to compensate the reduced pay for the teachers on strike.
Journalist Joan Canela (@JoanCanela), one of the journalists behind the project Mèdia.cat , tweeted:
More than 40,000€ in the resistance funds for the #indefiniteteachersstrike and soon they'll be saying that these are not moments of solidarity http://t.co/gtvIdtuJC0 — Joan Canela (@JoanCanela) 19 September, 2013
For the moment, and until the government and organisers sit down and negotiate, the strike will continue.
"Lesbianism" and "War Games": Russian Internet Censorship Continues · Global Voices
E-textbook "Lesbianism for Children."
An art piece hosted by counter-culture website Looo.ch.
Screenshot.
Two months ago the Russian government activated a new weapon in its war on Internet freedom — a broadly framed anti-piracy law that makes it extremely easy to shut down any online resource on claims of copyright infringement.
For now, this law has been exclusively used by copyright owners to target Russian torrent websites and filesharing forums , making it harder for Russians to watch Breaking Bad and Game of Thrones.
Other websites, however, can still run afoul of proper censorship from Roskomnadzor, the agency that runs Russia's Internet blacklist registry.
Looo.ch , a counter-culture art blog and media platform with niche content and readership (its front page features male genitalia wrapped in a string of pearls and a young girl aiming a gun at her mouth) is the most recent victim of a Russian law banning the propaganda of homosexuality.
It was presumably blocked for hosting an art project: two multimedia "textbooks" titled "Homosexuality for Children" and "Lesbianism for Children," which are meant to be a "satire of Russian homophobia" and contain erotic photos and texts explaining why homosexuality is "great."
Looo.ch itself says on their Facebook page that they received no reason for being included in the "forbidden websites" registry on September 19, 2013, and called on their users to access the website through TOR.
Being on the blacklist means that Russian ISPs are obligated to block access to the website in question.
While the blocking of Looo.ch itself could have gone largely unnoticed, Roskomnadzor was hoisted by their own petard, cutting off internet access to SquareSpace , a hosting platform similar to WordPress that hosts Looo.ch.
Confusion over IP addresses of hosters and websites is a constant issue with the blacklist — Roskomnadzor has previously blocked entire websites over a single infringing page.
Because of the latest blanket block thousands of websites (26,439 according to looo.ch) were cut off from the Russian market until the issue was resolved.
Looo.ch and its "homosexuality propaganda" only gained in notoriety as a result, thinks nationalist blogger Egor Prosvirnin:
there was a website for radical-leftist intelligentsia with daily visits of around 3,000 people, a diversion for a narrow audience.
Now the above mentioned "Homosexuality Textbook" is on the front page of Habrahabr (and a thousand other news websites and blogs with an audience of millions), and 26,000 law-abiding websites , including purely commercial ones, are blocked in Russia.
At the same time the "Textbook" file can be instantaneously found through Google.
Increasing instances of down-times like this are prompting some websites to take pro-active measures.
In mid-September users of the popular free internet depository of pirated books (real books this time, not kinky art-pieces), Flibusta.net (see this Global Voices report for more on Russian pirate libraries), found that they couldn't read or download any books through a regular web-browser.
Instead they were taken to a sparse webpage that said "War games in progress" at the top.
What readers of flibusta.net saw when trying to download a book.
The page explained:
Anti-Internet laws already passed or in the planning stages in Russia in some ways affect all users.
Every person should know how to counter censorship and blocks.
Along with the regular Internet there are the anonymous webs of I2P and TOR.
They aren't as easily controlled .
It's high time to learn how to use them.
The page, which remained in effect for several weeks, gave I2P and TOR addresses for Flibusta, as well as links to FAQs on how to install, configure and use the programs.
Essentially, Flibusta has made the attempt to train their audience to become internet-savvy, an educated and sophisticated force of rule-breakers.
Of course, people complained about the added bother — not the least because the TOR network was slow at the time on account of a bot-net problem.
There are plenty of online libraries to choose from, and because of that Flibusta probably lost users who preferred to take the easy way out.
Since the new anti-piracy law only targets distribution of pirated video, Russian book pirates are safe from censorship for the moment, unlike artists creating avant-garde art.
However, Flibusta's militaristic metaphor is apt — as the steady encroachment on Russian Internet freedoms continues, more people are going to feel like they are at war with the government.
In the future they will probably react more positively when a grizzled Internet-wars veteran hands them a shovel and says: "This is as far as they come.
Help me dig this trench, son."
Ancient Pyramid Destroyed in Peru as Developers Eye Land · Global Voices
This post, written by Jessica Mota, was originally published on 21 August 2013 by Brazilian investigative news organization Agência Pública as part of the series on #PatrimônioAmeaçado (Threatened Heritage, in Portuguese).
It was four o'clock in the afternoon of a Saturday, 29 June when Estequilla Rosales, a 51-year-old Peruvian, heard a noise coming from the other side of the archaeological site she knew very well.
As vice president of the association Kapaq Sumaq Ayllu , for 14 years she has been responsible for helping to protect a national cultural heritage in Peru, the 45-hectare Archaeological Complex of El Paraíso, one of the largest and oldest in Peru.
It is in that spot that she spends her days. And it was nearby, on the Santa Josefina hill, that she built her house.
The noise was coming from something that Estequilla could never expect, not even in her nightmares.
A group of men were making use of heavy machinery to destroy one of the eleven archaeological mounds registered on the site.
Underneath this small mound, a pre-Inca pyramid, four to six meters tall and 2.5 square kilometers, which dates from ancient times.
The place where one of the pyramids of El Paraiso was knocked down, as seen in the sand.
Photo: Jessica Mota / Agência Pública
"I was desperate, didn't know what to do, because there is no telephone signal here.
What I did was I climbed up the hill and told the watchman to call the police", remembers Estequilla:
Now I feel calmer. But when it happened, I really felt a deep pain, as though it had been a person, someone I had been very fond of.
Because it is part of my country, they had been murdering my identity, my culture.
And this is, as one might say, a treason to the nation.
I am deeply sorry that a Peruvian might be so ignorant as to be able to destroy like that.
Location of the Archeological Complex of El Paraíso in the region of the state of Lima, Peru.
Design: Bruno Fonseca for Agência Pública
The Archaeological Complex of El Paraiso, one hour away from Lima in the county of San Martin de Porres, is located in an area where there is growing real estate speculation.
Discovered in the 1950s, the site remained idle until December 2012, when the Ministry of Culture began to implement the project.
As the years went by, the area surrounding the site was gradually taken up as private property.
Today, the borderline of the archaeological site is right where the private plots and crops begin.
There used to be 12 registered pyramids on the site.
The main one had been almost completely restored by Swiss archaeologist Fredéric Engel between 1965 and 1966.
In January 2013, the sector responsible for excavations in the Peruvian Ministry of Culture discovered evidence to suggest that El Paraiso is as ancient as the Egyptian pyramids or Mesopotamian civilization.
Between 4,500 to 4,800 years old, that would be one of the cradles of our Latin American continent.
It is proof that long before the Spaniards, the Church and even Christ, Lima had already become a major capital city.
Marco Guillén, the chief archaeologist for the project developed by the Ministry of Culture in El Paraíso, explains:
It is one of the few cities worldwide which presents a cultural continuity over time.
And this is a great advantage. (...)
Lima, the capital city, has the oldest waka (ancient and sacred monument) in Peru.
It is how civilization appeared here.
The destruction of the pyramid amounts to tearing off the page of a book of the history of Peru.
There is no way of finding out what happened.
In the middle of the road, there was a pyramid
As you leaves Lima, in order to get to El Paraíso, you must take a microbus - a kind of van which outnumbers other means of public transport in Lima - up to the neighboring town of Pro.
It is a 40-minute journey through the hectic traffic of the Peruvian capital.
From there, two more microbuses which will take you to the car, near the station, driven by one of the members of Association Kapaq Sumaq Ayllu.
The landscape is bare, dotted with humble houses.
As you arrive at the narrow lane that leads to the complex, you see open air garbage, vultures and children who seek toys amidst the dirt.
"When we arrived, there were billboards placed in every hill.
They think that this area belongs to them", says one of the project archaeologists.
The sign reads "private property recognized on August 8, 1984″, followed by the description of the area and its registration number.
Photo: Jessica Mota / Agência Pública
I observe a wall which hugs the side of the road the entire way.
"It's a wall", explains Miguel Castillo, field head of the project of El Paraíso, who sits in the rear of the car.
Later I would find out that the wall is 30 kilometers long and surrounds the hills in the region.
As time went by, it was snatched up along the way by the private buildings and plots.
Castillo ponders:
The Government is inefficient.
It has the means to set out and to protect the wakas , but it does not do anything.
It is the same in Brazil, in Argentina...
What we have is the personal initiative from a few people, from archaeologists.
But this is not enough.
Members from the Kapag Association, together with their security people, had been victims of an attack a week before.
For safety reasons, a watchman accompanied our group - with the entire team of archaeologists - while walking to the area where the pyramid had been destroyed.
The native workers who previously used to be engaged in the excavation, now sit on the top of the hills, watching over.
After the pyramid was knocked down, security has been doubled.
Russia's Unpopular but "Necessary" Illegal Immigrant Camps · Global Voices
At the end of July, Moscow oblast's Acting Governor proposed the establishment of a detention center for illegal immigrants on a former military base near Yegoryevsky.
The cost of renovations to repurpose the property is estimated to be 200 million rubles (over $6 million).
Not surprisingly, local residents were less than pleased with the idea, prompting the district's chief, Mikhail Lavrov, to suggest that a referendum on the subject, held on September 22, should decide whether or not Yegoryevsky hosts the camp.
While Lavrov said he personally opposed the proposed detention center, he supported the idea of an online poll to gauge constituents’ feelings on the subject.
The district government's website soon posted a yes-or-no survey , asking the public: “Do you agree to the placement of a special camp for illegal migrants in the Yegoryevsky municipal area?”
While previous polls on the website generated an average of less than 100 responses, approximately 10,000 people voted on the detention center question in the poll's first 24 hours.
In this period, more than 99% of the respondents—9,000 of 9,001—opposed hosting such a camp.
Moreover, the local Public Chamber wrote a letter to Moscow oblast's Acting Governor, noting that the municipality already accommodates a jail, a psychiatric hospital, two psycho-neurological boarding schools, and an orphanage.
Later, in an interview with the radio station Echo of Moscow, Lavrov tried to clarify the situation, explaining the popular backlash to building the camp as the result of confusion about the plan's details.
In a comment on Echo of Moscow’s website, one reader joked:
The residents of the Yegoryevsky region are against migrant camps, because all the residents have expressed their desire to provide their own housing to all visiting workers!
Welcome to Russia!
Meanwhile, the chief of the local electoral commission announced that a referendum on the subject was unnecessary, and Lavrov promptly backed down , closing the online poll and canceling plans for a ballot measure.
The elections commission declared simply:
If everyone refuses, where can we put the camp for migrants?
It's something that needs to be done....
On August 28, it was reported that Moscow oblast plans to have four such migrant detention centers by 2016, with at least one of these camps almost certain to appear at Yegoryevsky's former military base.
The head of Russia's Federal Migration Service in the Moscow, Oleg Molodievsky, added:
Within a month, we will inform the district's residents about the establishment, explain its details, specify how many migrants will be located there, and how they will be transported, after which residents will express their opinion, about whether or not this center is needed.
Molodievsky also tried to calm locals' fears about incarcerating more criminals nearby, elaborating:
These are the same folks who walk among us.
They move into the oblast and the city, these are not criminals in any sense of the word.
We need to do a better job explaining to the public what these centers.
The public outreach campaign, however, could be an uphill battle.
Commenting on Molodievsky's statement, one reader remarked cynically:
Wonderful, at our expense (the taxpayers) we will also build, heat, maintain, and feed .
Can't money be spent on pensions or schools and kindergartens for children’s breakfasts?
Or to strengthen our borders, so that illegal immigrants are fewer, and highly educated foreigners willing to work for 15 thousand rubles come instead?
"My Body is My Weapon!", Femen in Spain to Claim the Right to Abortion · Global Voices
Source: FEMEN
After having interrupted Minister of Justice Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón's speech, shouting "Abortion is sacred!" in Congress, an organization called Femen took to the streets for the first time in Spain on October 12 in the city of Madrid, where Columbus Day was being celebrated.
"Of course, we will go further and of course we will continue protesting," said Lara Alcázar, leader of the Femen movement in Spain, after being released from potentially being charged with disorderly conduct following the incident at the Congress.
And this is how it has been.
Between national flags, military parades, and other patriotic symbols, women bared their torsos once again, carrying out their first official act in Spain, this time accompanied by slogans on their banners, as well as their chests and torsos, such as "I am free", "Femen Sextremist", and "My body is my weapon".
The reason that has led the activists from this controversial organization to protest is the reform that the Minister of Justice put forth that would end with the current system that permits women to terminate their pregnancies without claiming a reason until the 14th week of gestation.
It would also eliminate the rights of minors at ages of 16 and 17 to have abortions without parental permission.
Femen accuses the Spanish government of being sexist, bound to ideas of the Church, and being misogynistic, emphasizing their concern for "the danger to the freedom of women in Spain," and conclude that if morals and religion are sacred to Gallardón, for them it is women's decisions over their own bodies.
In conclusion, they have ensured that their next step is to open a Femen center in Madrid to create a more powerful core for the organization in Spain and allow the protests to continue to develop.
Below are a few comments from Twitter users:
IBM, Cisco Supply Brazil with Surveillance Tools for World Cup · Global Voices
"Surveillance Giants keeping an Eye on Brazil."
An interactive infographic from Agência Pública shows the companies which profit through the world espionage market and how they are watching Brazil This article, by Bruno Fonseca, Jessica Mota, Luiza Bodenmüler, and Natalia Viana, was originally published on September 6, 2013 by Agência Pública as part of its special #SpyFiles3 coverage.
Read the first part of this series: Brazil Becomes Hot Market for Surveillance Technology Ahead of World Cup
According to market research firm IMS Research , Brazil is a big market for video surveillance systems in Latin America (constituting 45% of the total up until 2014), made even hotter due to the upcoming mega events.
Oliver Philippou, author of the research , stated at the time:
Surveillance equipment will be used for the two largest sporting events in the world, the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics; in a large number of infrastructure projects in Brazil, and for diverse extensive surveillance projects in cities.
Since 2010, American multinational firm IBM has attempted to sell to the Brazilian government its concept of “more intelligent cities,” with technological solutions in the areas of transportation, energy, and increasingly, security.
In that same year, the firm supported a “road show” of the National Confederation of Shopkeepers (Confederação Nacional de Dirigentes Lojistas) in the 12 host cities of the World Cup and chose its manager of new technologies, Cezar Taurion, as article contributor for the site World Cup 2014 Portal , according to IBM’s site, in order to:
debate how technology can help develop the infrastructure of Brazilian cities and prepare them for the 2014 World Cup, helping them become more intelligent.
The results were worth the effort: IBM became responsible for designing the Integrated Command and Control Centers technological centers which concentrate decisions concerning security during the games.
In these centers, huge screens monitor everything from street cameras around the stadiums to weather data, in addition to maps which show the locations of car accidents.
And in Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais, they had a crucial role in the strategy of police repression against the massive protests which took place in June 2013.
The military police, civil police, firefighters, Medical Mobile Emergency Assistance (SAMU), federal police, federal highway police, municipal guards, civil defense, and the Traffic Engineering Company all work in cooperation at these centers.
In total, the installations in Rio cost nearly 104.5 million Brazilian reais (approximately 44 million US dollars) — 70 percent paid by the state government and 30 percent by the federal government, according to data released by the municipal government of Rio.
IBM provided the hardware, software, analytics, and research.
The English surveillance giant Cisco provided the network infrastructure and the videoconferencing system that connects the center of operations directly to the mayor’s house.
The Center was inaugurated at the end of May this year, just weeks before the beginning of the protests and the Confederations Cup.
For the occasion, Brazilian Justice Minister José Eduardo Cardoso welcomed the work as “impressive in its technology and functionality” and said:
This center is an example for the world.
The country’s public security gains in quality, it is a legacy that will remain for Brazilian society after the mega events.
IBM also won the contract to implement the 27 Command and Control Mobile Integrated Centers (known by its Portuguese acronym CiCCM), a project of the Special Secretariat of Security for Mega Events (known by its Portuguese acronym SESGE), together with the companies Rontan and Medidata, as well as Cisco.
There are 27 trucks with the information technology, communications systems, and video monitoring for the 2014 World Cup which will function as advance command and control stations operated by agents os the above mentioned forces.
Rodrigo Dientsmann, president of Cisco Brazil, affirmed:
The mobile center will be fundamental to the management of security during the mega events by bringing together the most effective technology for rapid responses to incidents and threats.
To find out more about the involvement of these international surveillance companies in Brazil, check out the information at the bottom of the original story, in Portuguese.
Your Fantasy is Her Nightmare: 'Sexy' Pakistani Women on YouTube · Global Voices
Fully clothed in traditional shalwar kameez, chadars draping their heads, the teenage sisters stepped outside their home into their private garden, to dance.
The distant hills of northern Pakistan’s Chilas valley sparkled in the rain as the sisters laughed and spun in circles.
Someone took out a mobile phone and made a video of their private, playful and innocent moment.
In June, the two sisters and their mother were brutally gunned down by their step-brother, an apparent honor killing over the mobile video.
The video clip circulated from phone to phone among their conservative community.
Apparently it had brought “shame” upon the family. By ending their lives with his gun, the step-brother was trying to wash away the shame his sisters had brought upon the family, thus reclaiming their honor or ghair’at, as it is called in Urdu.
Some say the video and honor killing were part of a plot to maneuver his stepmother out of the family property.
To many, the Chilas sisters’ video seems completely ordinary, but in their hometown, girls dancing in the rain, even fully clothed, is seen as erotic.
"In a society where segregation (across genders, but also across class and gender) is so prized, just access to the mundane life of a random pakistani girl is so exciting,” Pakistani filmmaker and culture blogger Ahmer Naqvi explained in an email.
The Chilas sisters are not the only Pakistani girls who have had their private moments hijacked and sexualized for public consumption.
The tagging, titles and comments around these often innocent videos is almost always sexualized.
To highlight the range of ways in which videos made by Pakistanis for private consumption are misappropriated, we concealed the faces of the dancers and used the YouTube clips to create this short film, “Suck on the Sugarcane of Love.”
Pakistani girls are hot and sexy on YouTube
The film opens with a woman doing a traditional dance at an intimate family gathering, but is titled “Pakistani girl dance in Islamabad College party.”
“abbotabad pakistan hot girls sexy dance pashto song”, the next clip in, is probably not from Abbottabad, where Osama bin Laden was killed; the “hot girl” in the video probably isn’t Pakistani and her gyrations are definitely not to the beat of the Pashto song amateurishly overlaid on the video.
On YouTube, the same clip has been uploaded with various soundtracks and titles including, “Pakistani Girls Sexy Indoor Dance: Sexy Mast Dance Leaked Video”.
Privacy is an illusion, fantasy is real
Pakistani women dance and sing even in the most conservative towns, but usually only with trusted family.
Many never dance in front of ghair (outsiders), to avoid casting a shadow on their family’s honor.
This private culture has been repeatedly exposed through indiscreet sharing of images captured for private use.
“You never know when one of your innocent images that you clicked while having fun with friends or while showing off a new dress or hairstyle is used with a sexual overtone in obnoxious videos,” says Pakistani technologist and digital privacy activist Fariha Akhtar in an email.
“Before putting online our private videos, we need to ask ourselves if there's really no other way to share them with friends and loved ones.”
Other videos on YouTube are from opulent private wedding dance parties.
Currently, in Karachi, Pakistan’s largest city, you can buy DVDs titled, Ameero ke Raks (Dances of the Rich), clips from private weddings packaged into films that condemn the rich for their vulgarity while at the same time reveling in their hedonism.
This phenomenon points to a larger issue. “The lack of conversation on sex and sexuality is a society-wide problem," says Ahmer Naqvi.
"The various new stories about Pakistanis leading the world in online searches for weird sex stuff is just one symptom.
But it manifests itself in various ways.
At some level this intentional sexualisation is also about fantasy "
The Chilas sisters, it seems were also living out a fantasy: dancing freely in the rain.
For some women in Pakistan, the reality is that even simple fantasies can have deadly consequences.
For information on how to keep yourself safe online, please check out Bolo Bhi's Digital Security guides and Take Back the Tech's Strategies for Protecting Your Privacy Online and Be Safe.
#OccupyMyself: Confessions Of A Social Media Deserter · Global Voices
"I was feeling tired and anxious: I was addicted to social media."
Photo: Wm.
Li (CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)
I would probably never have known it was Social Media Week last September had Rayna, a fellow Global Voices colleague, not come to London for it.
It seems to be such a big international event that anyone who works for Global Voices must have known about it.
But I did not: I am a social media deserter.
First, I left Twitter.
After an intense period of over-use during the Brazilian national elections in 2010, I was knackered.
Was it what they call information overload?
Besides being physically tired, realising I could not be on the top of everything made me feel powerless as well.
I was addicted the energy and buzz of social media, but I could no longer keep going.
By the beginning of 2011, I had left completely.
After experiencing proper withdrawal symptoms that caused me to stare repeatedly at the login page, I started to feel better.
Suddenly I had more time and energy to do things I used to enjoy, like reading books, and things that I wished I had time for, like learning to meditate.
Leaving Facebook was a more considered decision.
After Twitter, it had become the sole black hole sucking up my time.
As I was about to start a very intensive course in Psychosynthesis coupled with a new university degree, my free time had became too costly, my attention too precious.
I knew Facebook had the ability to distract me and take my focus away from my inner self, so I set my departure date for before 2012, and said goodbye to the few friends who still saw my updates in their increasingly busy timelines.
I quietly deactivated my account, aware that I tend to addiction and that it was this, not the tools, that were the root cause of my problem.
I have missed seeing photos of friends' new babies and kittens, party invitations, interesting events, and daily updates about people I care for.
I have not missed the game invitations, memes, or being bombarded with advertisements.
Also on the plus side, I have become more selective about the information I consume, the raw material of my thoughts.
I feel sad that only a few friends drop me notes or send me photos elsewhere, and I admit I haven't been that good at keeping in touch either.
I miss feeling connected, but truth be told, when I meet people and have one of those "Didn't-you-see-it-on-Facebook?" moments where I'm surprised with old news everyone has already seen on their timelines, they usually say, "Oh, I hadn't noticed you left".
Is this being connected to people in a meaningful way?
I don't miss Twitter or Facebook, but I confess I created a "fake" account to promote a cause last year, ended up using it to follow my friend's pregnancy, and then got in touch with our common circle of 10 close friends.
I am, however, just a silent member of their audience, not willing to be publicly intimate on my own timeline.
I have been forced into Google Plus because many of my colleagues have begun to use Hangouts instead of Skype.
And I once opened a Twitter account for a service I was offering, but found it unbearable.
It felt like I was shouting in the middle of a street packed with screaming people.
Deafening—and boring.
I quickly went back to my own inner hashtag, #occupymyself.
"One day, I decided to break free."
Photo by Eric Hacke (CC BY-NC 2.0)
Will I ever return to social media?
I miss my old friends.
I miss meeting new like-minded people, like @giantpandinha, one of my best "real life" friends whom I would never have met if it wasn't for Twitter.
I miss having a laugh sometimes at some random silly post.
There's still a little voice inside me tell me I'm missing out.
Sometimes I consider going back, but maybe I'll wait till I finish university and have more time.
By then, I hope there will be social media tools facilitating more consciously minded connections.
But by then, when I do have more time, perhaps I will prefer to do yoga, garden, explore nature, or do the many other things on my life to-do list.
I enjoy the time offline after spending whole workdays connected.
I still spend much more time in front of computers than I wish I did, and have read fewer books than I've hoped to, but it's wonderful to meditate every day and explore my precious inner space, instead of getting distracted by others.
Having time for myself has been the biggest change in my life since I became social media-free.
I love the fact that, when I'm out there in the world, I no longer feel the compulsion to check, read, post, report, share, or measure my relevance in "retweets" or 'likes'.
I pay better attention to what people say, and I'm able to focus fully on what I'm experiencing.
Free from an overdose of external distraction, I can better connect to myself.
No longer satisfied with being merely social media-free, I have booked myself on a silent Vipassana retreat in the coming weeks, where I shall spend 10 days doing nothing but sitting still and meditating from 4am to 9pm.
I dare my social media friends to do that for even 10 minutes!
"Now I am zen!"
Photo by Evan Lovely (CC BY 2.0)
Paula Góes, from Brazil, is a reformed social media addict and the Multilingual Editor of Global Voices.
Central African Republic: "Don't Forget About Us!" · Global Voices
The Central African conflict between the Central African government and Seleka rebels has worsened alarmingly since December 2012.
After months of conflict, Seleka rebels announced the taking of the presidential palace on March 24, 2013.
President François Bozizé is taking refuge in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Michel Djotodia, head of the rebellion, has named himself president of the Central African Republic.
Several attempts by rebels to integrate have failed and the Seleka has been officially disbanded.
Nevertheless, the ex-rebels continue to act ruthlessly in the region, looting and pillaging any town they pass through with impunity.
Humanitarian crisis
The humanitarian situation is catastrophic in certain towns, especially in the interior.
The abuses of power committed by the rebels are making people angry.
Camille Mandaba , a resident of Bangui, described a rebel operation which was “presented as a disarmament operation”:
Saudi Clergyman Delivers Ground-breaking Science on Why Women Shouldn't Drive · Global Voices
"God did not say I can't drive," reads this sign posted on the We The Woman N7nu flickr account
In Saudi Arabia, women are banned from driving.
While more than 11,000 women challenge the ban through a petition, a man of wisdom has finally come up with a scientific explanation on why it is actually better for women not drive.
In an interview with online Saudi newspaper Sabq, Sheikh Saleh al-Lehaydan, a judicial and psychological consultant to the Gulf Psychological Association, revealed novel reproductive science facts :
He added "In addition, if the woman drove without a necessity this may affect her physiology negatively; in the science of functional physiology this issue has been studied and it affects the ovaries spontaneously, affects thrusting the pelvis upwards, thus we find that most of those who drive cars continuously deliver children with varying degrees of clinical dysfunction."
Sheikh Lehaydan's announcement is incredibly timely: Saudi women activists are campaigning for 26 October to be a day when women go out driving.
His warning urging women to "wait and consider the negatives" of such a damageable activity adds to concerns voiced by other conscious Saudi citizens :
Those who are calling for a women driving protest Oct 26th are a tribe who have been breastfed by the West and they grew big and fat drinking that milk.
Now they are following the West and trying to Americanize our society.
'Foreign hands,' a favourite tune in the Middle East when it boils down to reconsidering institutionalized human rights violations, are not the only ones guilty of fomenting dangerous opposition to long-lived prohibition:
God be great, the secularists and the Shia are in one trench to call for women driving.
This proves that the issue is planned and supported by nations.
Eman al-Nafjan tweets a picture of the apocalypse to come:
Some Saudi misogynist made this poster on how women driving will lead to communism, drugs, liberalism... pic.twitter.com/xjBe44oObr — Eman Al Nafjan (@Saudiwoman) September 27, 2013
(The slogan reads: "They want her to drive so that she’ll be driven.")
Sheikh al-Lehaydan's ground-breaking scientific discovery could not go unnoticed.
A Twitter hashtag, #قيادة_المرأة_تؤثر_على_المبايض_والحوض, that translates into "women driving affects ovaries and pelvis" kicked off and went viral as many reacted to al-Lehaydan's scientific knowledge:
What is this?
I talked to my doctor, and she said “What kind of ignorance is this?
These words have nothing to do with Medicine, from wherever you look at it!"
Saudi Cleric Says Crazy Shit #NotNews — Ahmed Al Omran (@ahmed) September 27, 2013
Renowned (male) scientist and sound religious critic, Richard Dawkins, observed:
Why shouldn't Saudi women drive?
Driving damages their ovaries and pelvis. http://t.co/r1BnHWrLDC Oh I SEE, it's not religion but SCIENCE. — Richard Dawkins (@RichardDawkins) September 28, 2013
To whom tweep @Seeektrooof commented:
@RichardDawkins This is how they figure it out. pic.twitter.com/rWrxPQ2FkI — Truth Seeker (@Seeektrooof) September 28, 2013
Sarcasm aside, challenging the driving ban in Saudi Arabia is a long-lived battle.
Indeed, the first protest opposing the ban happened back in November 1990 (En) when 47 women drove through the country's capital city of Riyadh.
They were not only arrested, but many were further punished by being banned from travel and suspended from their work.
May 2011, marked a tipping point of the protest movement against driving prohibition for women in the Kingdom after Saudi women's rights activist Manal al-Sharif was arrested after uploading a video to YouTube that showed her driving.
She was jailed for more than a week, becoming a hero for many women both in Saudi Arabia and across the Middle East.
Back in June 2011, numerous Saudi women across the Kingdom followed the example Manal al-Sharif has set and participated in the "Women2Drive" campaign by defying the ban and driving throughout the streets.
As a matter of fact, banning women from driving is not inscribed anywhere in the Kingdom's official legislation.
Additionally, the head of Saudi Arabia’s religious police also said that the "Islamic sharia does not have a text forbidding women driving," stressing that, since appointed as head of the Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice, religious police have not pursued or stopped a woman driving.
The prohibition is thus entirely based on the country's conservative customs.
Mobilization to revert oppressive prohibition has been growing ever since and bold acts of civil disobedience have multiplied.
Along with bold positions in Saudi Arabia's mainstream media, the 26 October campaign has seen an incredible support from many of the country's prominent public figures.
Remarkable Madeha Al-Ajroush who drove both in 1990 and in June 2011, says:
I am a male supporter women driving on October 26.
Tweet Using a Photograph. I am a male supporter women driving on October 26. Tweet Using a Photograph.
The placard the man is carrying reads :
"I am fed up of working as a driver for my six sisters."
Leila Nachawati contributed to this piece.
PHOTOS: Life Inside Myanmar · Global Voices
College graduates leaving a beauty salon.
Meiktila, 2013
Award-winning photographer Geoffrey Hiller first visited Myanmar in 1987; and he was ‘haunted’ by what he saw in the country:
After a frenetic trip, it wasn’t so much the monks and pagodas that haunted me, but the faces of the Burmese, painted in white, often smiling.
I wanted to find out more about who they really were, plagued by a corrupt government and international sanctions.
He has since then returned to Myanmar several times and he witnessed the changes that have taken place in the country in recent years:
I returned yet again in 2013.
My camera focused on capturing daily life, from the cramped streets of the colonial capital of Yangon, to dusty markets in Mandalay, to Muslims in Meikhtila, and river life in Pathein.
The face of Yangon has already changed, with new building construction and imported cars.
He plans to publish a book through a Kickstarter project that would include his photographs documenting life inside Myanmar from 1987 through the recent historic transition.
The book, Burma in Transition, would also feature photos of Meiktila which Hiller visited before riots erupted in the town:
After my experience in this peaceful town, the news reports about the fighting and killing and burning of homes is unbelievable to me.
I had talked with dozens of residents of Meiktila, both Buddhists and Muslims, and I never would have guessed such violence would erupt
Pledge to the book project can be made through Kickstarter until October 9.
Dalah, 2011
Woman smoking cheroot, Mandalay, 1987
A building in Yangon, 2012
A young man holding a photograph of Opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi and her father, General Aung San.
Yangon Ferry, 2012
Women workers in Meiktila, 2013
*All photos by Geoffrey Hiller
Anti-fascist Musician Stabbed to Death by Neo-nazi in Greece · Global Voices
Greek Rapper Pavlos Fyssas, also known as Killah P. Photo via Greek Wikipedia
Greek anti-fascist hip hop musician Pavlos Fyssas, also known as Killah P., was stabbed to death on Wednesday, 18 September 2013, by a neonazi and Golden Dawn party supporter who confessed his crime after being arrested on the same day.
According to eyewitnesses, a few hours after midnight on the 18th, a group of 30 men wearing black T-shirts and military boots, attacked 34-year-old Fyssas and 7 of his friends near a coffee shop at Amfiali, Keratsini, a district of Athens, where he was watching a football match with his girlfriend.
A man, said to have driven to the scene after answering a phone call by members of the mob, stabbed Fyssas twice, aiming for his heart.
He was later recognized by witnesses as one of Piraeus' most notorious neonazis.
Fyssas pointed at his murderer , and possibly identified him, before expiring in hospital, several hours later.
According to the victim's father, doctors opined (video, el) that the stabbing was professionally executed.
It is believed that the attack was a pre-arranged ambush, given the musician's stated opposition to the Golden Dawn party.
Golden Dawn itself denied any connection to the perpetrator or the murder, despite evidence and testimonies pointing to the contrary.
Journalist Leonidas Saklabanis tweeted an eyewitness testimony:
Eyewitness (Fyssas' friend): They stabbed him twice because they couldn't take him down.
They wore black T-shirts.
Blogger and twitter user Monahus pointed out:
According to Fyssas' father, some people heard them talking about Golden Dawnists and called the others that ambushed him afterwards.
Eyewitnesses also claimed that they pleaded with police officers present to interfere, but they declined because the attackers were "too many".
London-based Greek journalist Yannis Baboulias added:
@YannisBab: Worth mentioning that the killer was in the end arrested by a female officer, while her collegues stood there and did nothing. #Greece
Deputy editor of Greece's daily English language newspaper, Kathimerini English Edition (@ekathimerini) Nick Malkoutzis commented:
@NickMalkoutzis: On murder of antifascist Pavlos Fyssas, gov't also has Qs to answer regarding apparent inaction of police who witnessed stabbing #Greece
Initially, mainstream media latched on to the football quarrel-rhetoric, making the murder seem not premeditated and with no political motives:
@YannisBab: Unbelievable that TV station SKAI runs story of murdered antifascist under the title "He killed him over football".
Absolute disgrace.
The 45-year old self-confessed murderer initially told the police that he was already at the coffee shop where the victim was sitting with his friends, that they attacked him as he was heading back to his car, and that he was forced to stab the victim in self-defense.
He also denied being a member of Golden Dawn, claiming a "loose" association with the neo-nazi party.
However, his allegations were incoherent and contradicted the statement that his wife gave to the police.
She stated that during the football match, her husband was at home when he received a phone call by a stranger and rushed out, and later admitted being told to dispose of "political literature" and assorted incriminating evidence in a followup phone call:
@NickMalkoutzis: Police sources tell @jeansouliotis that Golden Dawn member who stabbed antifascist Pavlos Fyssas told wife to throw away his party card
@inflammatory_: Taser+batons found at the flat of Fyssas' murder who asked his wife to remove any material in connection w Golden Dawn #rbnews @Polyfimos
According to a friend of the perpetrator , he was not only a Golden Dawn supporter, but he and members of his family also worked at the party's offices.
The perpetrator is being investigated by the police for performing violent acts on the party's behalf, such as beating up immigrants around Piraeus.
His wife and a friend of his, also working for Golden Dawn, were both arrested for providing false testimonies and attempting to eliminate evidence from the perpetrator's apartment.
Apostolis Kaparoudakis, co-founder of the independent web radio radiobubble, quoted a news article:
TVXS: "The killer was being paid by Golden Dawn to beat up immigrants" http://bit.ly/18y8zm1 #rbnews #massmedia #KillahP
and blogger alepouda added:
According to the police spokesperson, the perpetrator was visiting G.D's local offices 5 to 6 times a week. #KillahP
Besides the testimonies, there are several Golden Dawn photos and videos on YouTube, where the perpetrator can be spotted participating in the party's events or outings, such as the infamous only-for-Greeks food and clothes hand-outs.
Pavlos Fyssas, the victim, was a well-known and loved underground hip hop artist, his songs and actions reflecting of his independent anti-fascist and anti-racist spirit:
Eyewitness: "Neither I, nor Pavlos belong to any political party.
They are looking for victims".
The Editors' Newspaper attested:
Killah P, "Killer of the Past". hailed from a working family, was an avowed anti-fascist, beloved in his neighborhood and known to the Greek hip hop scene.
"Of course he was an active anti-fascist.
Just listen to his lyrics," explained a neighbor.
The mother of a good friend of his confirmed that "he wasn't a member of any party, but he was politically active in his own way.
Do not doubt for one second: It was a politically motivated murder."
"He always fought for his beliefs," said a shop owner, near the scene of his murder.
The news spread like wildfire on Twitter, as incensed netizens started tweeting and posting about the murder, pointing to Golden Dawn for moral responsibility:
How come Kasidiaris is on every TV channel commenting and hasn't been arrested yet for abetting? #animals
Many Twitter users kept reminding others that immigrants were Golden Dawn's first victims.
Vasilis Papageorgiou wrote:
He wasn't the first one killed. Not unless we consider the immigrants murdered by Golden Dawn as non-humans.
Accordingly, blogger Anthony Verias pointed to a map of racist attacks in Greece:
@VeriasA: Map with racist attacks which have taken place in #Greece via @MindThe_Gab #rbnews #KillahP http://map.crisis-scape.net/
Thessaloniki-based alternative news site Alterthess reminded of doctors' unheeded warnings about assaults against immigrants:
Nikaia hospital neurosurgeon: 3 years now we are yelling about dozens of racist attacks http://dlvr.it/3zxDsF
Amnesty International condemned the murder of the anti-fascist activist, and exhorted the Greek government to prevent further politically motivated extremist violence:
This surge in xenophobia, intolerance and politically motivated attacks in Greece is truly chilling – the authorities must act now to prevent such violence from spreading before it gets out of hand
Global Voices editor and author Asteris Masouras created a storify on this subject, and contributed to this report.
The following is one of Killah P's songs with subtitles in English, a hip hop remix of a well known song by Greek rock band Trypes which became an anti-fascist anthem against fear, eerily apposite to his fight and final fate.
A Blogger, Tortured to Death One Year Ago · Global Voices
Rights lawyer Nasreen Stoudeh with Sattar Beheshti's mother at a memorial event for the murdered blogger.
Photo via "Exile Activist"
On the first anniversary of the death of Iranian blogger Sattar Beheshti in prison, human rights activists, friends and family members gathered on October 31, 2013 to remember him in Robat Karim ,Tehran Province.
Beheshti was arrested at the end of October 2012 and was pronounced dead some ten days later.
At the time, forty-one political prisoners bravely published a statement saying they witnessed signs of torture on Sattar's body.
Iranian blogger Arsalan Rahimi celebrates that Nasreen Stoudeh, a lawyer who defended several political prisoners and was jailed herself, and Mohammad Nourizad, a political activist and former journalist in conservative Keyhan, both made an appearance at the memorial event.
The blogger writes , "What activists in exile do and say, cannot have the same impact as the presence of these two people.... it does not matter what they believe, or whether they meet with Khatami .
What is important is they are fighting against oppression...
Long live them and all who struggle inside country."
Another blogger, Bala-vision, says that according to several judicial sources Sattar Beheshti was tortured.
In recent days, several other netizens were arrested too.
Another blogger, "Exile Activist" shared photos from the anniversary event (above) and reminds us that Beheshti was a blogger who spoke out for the working class.
Oppressed Mother
During a speech at the event (see video below), Mohammad Nourizad comforted Sattar Beheshti's mother, and chastised Iran's leaders, called them "the real face of an oppressor."
Speaking to Beheshti's mother he said, "The revolution was carried out to protect people like you, but all 290 members of the Iranian parliament saw the blood of your son and deny it."
Remembering Sattar in Stockholm
Political activists lit candles in Stockholm, Sweden.
The protesters remembered several other political prisoners too.
Several Iranian bloggers are still in jail and recently Amnesty International warned that jailed blogger,Mohammad Reza Pourshajari was being denied adequate medical care.
About four years ago, another blogger, Omid Reza Mirsayafi died in prison under suspicious circumstances.
No One Found Guilty of 'Prestige' Oil Disaster in Spain · Global Voices
Black oil slick at a Galician beach.
Photo from Wikimedia Commons used under license CC by SA 3.0
On November 13, 2002, the petrol tanker Prestige sank off the coast of Galicia in northern Spain, causing a highly toxic oil spill that polluted parts of France and Spain's Atlantic coast in what is considered to be one of the worst environmental disasters in history.
Eleven years later, after ten years of investigation and a nine-month trial, the Galician High Court of Justice has acquitted three of the defendants - the ship's captain, Apostolos Mangouras; the ship's chief engineer, Nikolaos Argyropoulos; and the head of Spain's merchant navy at the time, José Luis López Sors - of all crimes against the environment.
A fourth defendant, the vessel's second officer, remains on the run.
The catastrophe occurred when, due to unknown causes, one of the ship's oil tanks was punctured near the "Coast of Death."
The ship's captain asked Spanish authorities for permission to dock, but was prohibited from bringing the tanker closer to shore for fear that the leak would pollute the port.
He received the same response from Portuguese and French authorities.
The Prestige was forced to return to the high seas with a cracked hull and in terrible weather conditions, which would later lead to its sinking and the massive oil spill that followed.
The oil tanker Prestige about to sink after splitting in two.
Photo taken from the blog Ecología Verde and used under license CC by NC 3.0
The organization's campaign director María José Caballero stated :
The Guardian's (Mis)guide To Japanese Sex Trends · Global Voices
"Aversion to marriage and intimacy in modern life is not unique to Japan," said The Guardian.
"Nor is growing preoccupation with digital technology. But what endless Japanese committees have failed to grasp when they stew over the country's procreation-shy youth is that, thanks to official shortsightedness, the decision to stay single often makes perfect sense."
(Image: 女子会 at kasahara, by Flickr user sakaki0214.
CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)
Why have young people in Japan stopped having sex?
An article with that headline appeared in the UK's Guardian newspaper on October 20, 2013 and soon went viral, with over 70,000 Facebook shares.
The article was quickly aggregated by TIME magazine, the Washington Post and Slate, in pieces bearing the alarmist titles Japan's Sexual Apathy Is Endangering the Global Economy, Japan's Hottest New Sex Trend is Not Having Sex and Young People in Japan Have Given Up on Sex.
The article begins with an anecdote about Ai Aoyama, a dominatrix turned sex counselor, and explores the allegedly widespread phenomenon of "celibacy syndrome" among Japan's young people.
It leans heavily on quotes from Aoyama, evidently one of the author’s key informants, as well as interviews with young Japanese men and women and statistics gleaned from surveys and studies.
The article does highlight some genuine trends in Japan, such as the decline in the country's birthrate, and it was favourably received by users of the online bulletin board 2ch, who confirmed that they too, were not having sex.
But others, skeptical of the framing of the topic, the sweeping generalizations and the conclusions drawn, thought the article misrepresented and sensationalized the complexity of Japanese society.
This Guardian article is a version of a piece by the same author, Abigail Haworth, that appeared in the July 2013 online edition of the fashion magazine Marie Claire under the less sensational title "No Sex In the City".
Before it was mentioned on Al-Jazeera’s The Stream, the piece seems to have attracted little attention, with only 10 “shares” on Facebook.
In a series of tweets posted on October 24, Tomomi Yamaguchi, an anthropologist and feminist quoted in both the Marie Claire and Guardian articles, said that a journalist contacted her last spring requesting a telephone interview.
They talked for 30 minutes.
“I understood it as a story for Marie Claire,” said Yamaguchi, who explained that a fact-checker from the magazine followed up with her in June, and she was able to review the quotes to be used in the article.
“I thought that was it,” Yamaguchi said.
On October 20, however, she began receiving emails from members of the press asking about an article in the Guardian.
“At first I thought it was going to be a re-publication of the piece that appeared in Marie Claire. But after I read it I discovered my quote was not exactly what I said.”
In the days following its appearance online, the Guardian article was picked apart by Japanese and Japan-based Twitter users, who questioned the author’s interpretation of the data, her understanding of Japanese society and her grasp of its cultural norms.
Brian Ashcraft, the Osaka-based editor of the gaming and entertainment blog Kotaku.com, wrote a post dismantling some of the article’s arguments.
“Some of the data is surprising!
Some of it is totally misinterpreted or misconstrued,” Ashcraft said. “ claims that "another study found that a third of people under 30 had never dated at all."
So...two-thirds have, then?
Last I checked, "dating" and "having one-night stands" or simply "having sex" were different.
And according to that same study, one in ten couples got married after getting pregnant.
But I thought young Japanese people weren't having sex?”
“@guardian #fail,” tweeted “American, Japanese” @eidoinoue.
He pointed out that a study cited in the article as reporting that “an astonishing” 90% of young Japanese women believed that "staying single" was preferable, actually reports that nearly 90% of the women respondents said they planned on getting married.
“Call me a snob,” he said to another Twitter user, “but I think people that report on Japan should understand Japanese language and use pure untranslated sources.”
@eidoinoue disputed the existence of the “old Japanese saying” quoted in the article (“Marriage is a woman’s grave”), and criticised numerous other aspects of the piece, including the author’s heavy reliance on the testimony of "sex counsellor" Ai Aoyama.
@hunyoki felt the author was mixing matters: "'marriage', 'sex', and 'decline in birth rate' are correlated, yet these are completely different issues to be addressed separately.”
This sentiment was echoed by Tomomi Yamaguchi, who tweeted that the Guardian “seems to be confused which issue they intended to cover: lack of sex, or marriage, or decline in birthrate.”
Another concern of Yamaguchi’s was that the author likely focused on urban areas, failing to address “the problem in the countryside where the decrease in number of children has quite a serious impact.”
@Ucaty suggested that social desirability bias might have come into play: “I think Japanese people state less than the actual amount they study or their level of interest in sex.
Just like when we used to say to our classmate right before the exam, "I didn't study at all last night".”
"Come on British papers, can't you write a piece without using words like "sex" and "drugs"?" tweeted a cheeky @mogura, referring both the British media’s famous prurience and this apparent use of the lowest form of link bait.
Queer theory researcher Akiko Shimizu, however, thought the furore about the article may have been an overreaction: “…this rebuttal—"Yes, they are having sex"—is necessary in order to set the record straight.
But it’s starting to look like a straight-up defense of sex itself.
Does sex really need defending in the first place?”
Keiko Tanaka is a Japanese civic media enthusiast interested in digital engagement, radio and youth culture.
Ukraine Suspends EU Deal, Protesters Fill Kyiv's Independence Square · Global Voices
Ukrainians protest in support of EU integration in Kyiv, November 21, 2013.
Photo by Instagram user zenantipop; used with permission.
Hundreds of protesters gathered in Ukraine's capital, hours after their government pulled away from a historic European Union (EU) partnership deal that would help the former Soviet country integrate further in to Europe and warm up to the West.
The move comes after Russia offered Kiev loans and imposed painful restrictions on some Ukraine exports, which were interpreted as aggressive measures to derail the EU deal.
On November 21, 2013, the Ukrainian government officially announced that it would suspend preparations for the EU-Ukraine Association agreement, which was expected to be signed next week.
Soon after the news broke, opposition politicians called on citizens to join in a protest against this decision, scheduled for Sunday, November 24.
However, journalists, activists and other citizens on the Internet immediately began to spread invitations for people to come to Kyiv's main square on the very evening of November 21.
Sometime after 10 pm, people began to gather on Maidan Nezaleshnosti (Independence Square) in Kyiv to protest the government's decision and demonstrate their support for Ukraine's European integration.
The protest has been dubbed #євромайдан (#euromaidan or #eurosquare) by protesters on social media sites.
Taras Demchuk, a blogger from Kyiv, tweeted :
I came to #Євромайдан. @GrishynUA @OlhaSnitsarchuk @nerodyk @ja_olga @sodel_vlad are all here, and a bunch of other people)
User @Roman2the_world on Twitter said:
I am Ukrainian and I support EU-UA association agreement Євромайдан #Euromaidan.
Come together.RT show your support pic.twitter.com/QpU3eu82wv — Roman (@Roman2the_world) November 21, 2013
EU officials were quick to blame Russia for Ukraine's decision on Twitter.
The European commissioner for enlargement, tweeted:
#Ukraine:hard to overlook in reasoning for today's decision impact of #Russia's recent unjustified economic & trade measures against Kyiv. — Štefan Füle (@StefanFuleEU) November 21, 2013
Carl Bildt Sweden's Foreign Minister point-blank blamed Russia:
Ukraine government suddenly bows deeply to the Kremlin.
Politics of brutal pressure evidently works. http://t.co/IQSnb7Ifu7 — Carl Bildt (@carlbildt) November 21, 2013
Russia wants Ukraine to join its own customs union with Kazakhstan and Belarus, which it sees as a potential rival to the EU.
Even those who disagree with EU integration, like Dmitri Pavlenko from the Belgorod region of Russia, were humorous about what they had to say :
On the Kingdoms of Spain · Global Voices
90,000 people attended a pro-independence concert at the Nou Camp football stadium in Barcelona.
The full mosaic spelled out the words 'Freedom 2014 Catalunya'.
Image Copyright Demotix.
June 29, 2013.
Last week in Madrid, Catalan politician Alfred Bosch stood before Spain's Congress and asked for a moment of silence for a man some in the Chamber don't want to remember - Lluís Companys.
In 1940, four years after he tried to secure Catalonia's independence from Spain, Companys was publicly executed by Spanish dictator Franciso Franco's firing squad.
He is the only incumbent president in Europe to have been executed.
Bosch's request was met with contemptuous chatter from handful of right-wing congressmen.
Someone even yelled, "Viva España!" (Long Live Spain!]).
"Some of you don't take this seriously.
Fine. What can I do?" Bosch lamented.
After a frustrated pause, he added, "And by the way: Viva España, I agree.
And Viva Cataluña, Viva la France.
Through positivity, all the world's nations can get along."
As is often the case when Catalonia's politicians speak before government institutions in Madrid, the tension in the room was raw and palpable like that of an international chamber.
But on paper, the Spanish Congress is only a national chamber, of "one nation-state."
To large segments of Spain's population, though, their Kingdom may be more accurately described as a state of many nations.
The problem is the country's constitutionalists, are doing their best to deny that.
Catalonia, the next State in Europe
This year, on September 11, hundreds of thousands of Catalans joined hands to form a human chain that extended 460 kilometers across their region, from the French Pyrenean border to Valencia.
Complete with matching t-shirts and slogans, this robust act of protest was astonishingly well-organised, which came as no surprise: it was in fact the echo of a mass demonstration that took place one year prior, when a million people took to the streets of Barcelona under the banner: "Catalonia: The Next State in Europe.”
The day after that first demonstration, Catalan President Artur Mas publicly endorsed the protest and called for a referendum on independence.
Shortly after, he convoked early elections which produced a sweeping pro-referendum majority in Barcelona.
Overnight, Catalan politics changed.
The Independentists were now in control.
Unionists softened their rhetoric.
Nearly two hundred towns in the Catalan countryside preemptively declared independence . Parliament passed a declaration of sovereignty.
Instead of taking this clamor seriously and engaging the Catalan public, most in the Spanish government, including Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, positioned themselves firmly as antagonists.
They insisted that referendum was illegal, framing Catalan nationalists as enemies of democracy and, in some extreme cases, comparing the sovereignty movement to Nazism .
They have also tried to promote the idea of Catalan nationalist ambitions as parochial and irrelevant.
After a meeting with Catalan business leaders in Barcelona this month, Spain’s Deputy Prime Minister claimed not to have noticed any strong markers of regional identity.
In a recent English-language interview with The Wall Street Journal, Prime Minister Rajoy described the hypothetical advent of Catalan independence as contrary to the world's "natural evolution."
When addressing the Spanish public at the UN General Assembly, he went out of his way assure those in the chamber that none of his fellow world leaders had asked him about Catalonia.
Behind closed doors, however, it seems that Spanish officials are more concerned than their dismissive behavior implies: recently, Spain's UN delegation drafted a report on how best to respond if Catalan leaders take their case to the international community in the wake of a successful referendum on independence.
It asserted that Madrid could possibly draft security council allies into blocking Catalonia's full statehood, but would be relatively powerless to stop the region's admission as a General Assembly observer.
"Catalonia: The Next Partially-Recognized State" may not be as elegant a turn of phrase as those coined by activists, but it nonetheless haunts politicians in Madrid.
More than money
Since the 2012 protests, the international media has taken a keen interest in Catalonia after decades of neglect.
Al Jazeera, The Guardian, The New York Times, CNN and even Buzzfeed have all published articles about the recent separatist surge, but very few have seriously treated or even acknowledged the sovereignty movement's cultural roots, which extend deep into the soil of Mediterranean history (Buzzfeed, however reductively, being the exception here).
Instead, mainstream media outlets have framed the growing appeal of independence as a visceral response to the recession that continues to heavily burden Spain's economy.
Raphael Minder's argument in the New York Times that references to national identity are "high-minded ideals" that soften a debate that is primarily about the distribution of Spain's national budget, is an excellent example of their reductive treatment of Catalonia's sovereignty movement.
It is certainly a mistake to downplay competing notions of nationality as the cause of friction between Barcelona and Madrid.
The heat of that friction, however, derives not from disagreement over the value of nationhood itself—self-identifying Spaniards and Catalans alike experience this quite viscerally—but rather from a battle over competing notions of the ideal relationship between nation and the state in Spain.
Last year, President Mas wrote that Catalonia is a nation which only now needs the tool of statehood.
His argument, which hinged on the assumption that nations are unique phenomena and therefore don't need sovereignty to be legitimate, is actually a standard of Catalan politics—of the 129 presidents who have presided over the region's parliament since 1359, only two before Mas have ever sought full independence: Pau Claris in 1641 and Lluís Companys in 1934.
Each revolution occurred after overzealous officials in Madrid encroached too far upon regional liberties, as a result of Spanish nationalism's rise as a homogenizing force.
It is important to remember, amid such striking tension, that Spain's era of absolute centralism is thankfully a thing of the past.
As a recent OECD analysis concluded, Spain is among Europe's most politically decentralized states.
Nonetheless, a battle is being waged over the spirit of the country: is it multinational or a singular, cohesive society?
The worry in Catalonia is that the political establishment in Madrid continues to insist on the latter, embodied in a recent statement by Spain's Minister of Education that the government's interest is in "hispanicizing" Catalan children, an argument indicative of a pervasive colonial mentality.
The strong tendency towards this kind of rhetoric suggests that a majority of politicians (and probably, a great deal of the public, too) rejects a pluralistic definition of Spanish nationhood, and consider their country as it was defined by royal decree in 1707: united according to the culture and traditions of Castile.
If this is how a majority of Spain identifies, then it is so, and this is reasonable.
It is unreasonable, however, to then force those communities marginalized by this national definition to accept their marginalization.
If Spain should continue to be a unitary nation-state, the Catalan people have every right to establish their own, providing a significant majority wants one, and a referendum on independence is the only way to determine this.
Those who must insist on the Spanish nation’s singularity should also be comfortable with the idea of bidding seven million Spaniards adéu.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated Companys was executed in 1936.
Global Voices
Our third Global Voices Meetup will take place in Kampala, Uganda on November 23, 2013 at the Hive Colab.
This Meetup is especially targeted at the hundreds of Rising Voices microgrant applicants from across Uganda.
Over the past three years, we received the most number of applications from East Africa, including from all corners of Uganda.
We hope that this Meetup will help facilitate connections.
The Meetup will bring together many of these community members to share their experiences and help facilitate connections between others that share similar interests or missions.
Hosted by two of our community members Maureen Agena (@maureenagena) and Rosebell (@RosebellK), as well as other GV volunteers, the gathering will focus on: Explaining the work of Global Voices, Rising Voices, Advox, and Lingua, and how the Ugandan community can get involved, Exploring new ways that local community can support each other by sharing skills and resources and discussing projects and ideas, Discussing how social media can be used in their work, including personal experience from attendees.
Since the focus of this meetup is primarily for past microgrant applicants, the invitation was initally sent to these groups, and all of the slots are filled.
Follow the event through Twitter via #GVMeetup and for more information, please contact: rising globalvoicesonline.org
Romantic Love vs. Gender Equality: An Interview with Coral Herrera · Global Voices
Coral Herrera
This post is part of our series on Gender and Sexuality in Latin America in collaboration with The North American Congress on Latin America (NACLA). Stay tuned for more articles.
Reading Coral Herrera is like blowing a blast of fresh air and optimism into the struggle for the respect of diversity.
Her blog , her articles, her books and her ideas go right to the heart of what is considered obvious and normal.
Coral is mainly interested in gender equality, and in the effect of romantic imaginaries on the way men and women relate to each other and see themselves.
Coral Herrera is also part of a new generation of activists who start with gender equality but refuse to stay there.
Her writings analyse structural problems in Western societies, and identify the discomfort that has expanded in the intimate lives of men and women.
The idea is to conduct a deconstructive and honest critique of the causes and consequences of concepts that are perpetuated, and the imaginaries that we defend without even knowing why.
Coral Herrera is a great enthusiast of new media, where she shares a large part of her work.
But in addition to being a blogger, Coral has a PhD in Humanities and Audiovisual Communication.
Born in Spain, she moved to Costa Rica a few years ago, and has worked as a teacher and consultant for UNESCO, the United Nations Latin American Institute for Crime Prevention and Treatment of Delinquents (ILANUD), and the Spanish International Development Agency (AECID), at the Paris-Sorbonne University and in Madrid’s Universidad Carlos III.
Her main specialisation is in gender and her point of departure, romantic love.
Thus much of the work that Coral Herrera has published online is focused on the defence of diverse loves , myths and the political and collective dimension of how we understand love.
In Los mitos románticos (Romantic Myths), for example, she looks to the origins of the images that we have about love, and hits the nail directly on the head:
Through romantic love, inoculating foreign desires, patriarchy also controls our bodies in order to hetero-direct our eroticism, and make us assume the limits of femininity and dream about the arrival of The Saviour (Jesus, Prince Charming…) who will choose us as good wives and offer us the throne of marriage.
Regarding the cultural structures within which this phenomenon occurs, she explains:
In our Western culture, love is constrained, at least in the hegemonic cultural discourse. Homophobia is cultural, transphobia is cultural, racism and speciesism are cultural.
Culture is where the fear of the other, of the different, grows; it is in culture where myths, goals, prohibitions, prejudices and social obligations are created.
The author also highlights the importance of the stories we tell ourselves.
Part of Herrera’s work is to help us realise the ways in which certain imaginaries, ideals, and goals are passed down from generation to generation, through narratives that are also supported by dominant circles.
However, according to many social movements, what is constructed in one direction can take another direction:
The logical thing should be to transform the stories and tell new ones, change the idealised models that have become obsolete, construct flesh-and-blood heroes and heroines, create new myths that help us construct societies that are more just, egalitarian, environmentalist, cultured, and pacifist.
Direct our efforts towards the common good, work to propose other realities, fight to construct new ones, instead of fleeing from emotional paradises and individual promises of salvation.
Why do people get married on such a massive scale?
Why are there some people who only get married once, while others get married seven times? (…) Why does everyone ask about a baby but it’s frowned upon if the bride is pregnant?
Why do we make romantic videos of our weddings and torture our relatives for months?
Why do women invest so many resources in finding a partner? (…) Why can’t three people who love each other live together and get married?
Why do we get excited when we are offered marriage?
Why do we want this so much?
Why do people endure conjugal hell for so many years?
Why are there people who never get married?
What are weddings like in other cultures?
What comes after weddings?..
To offer a more thorough reflection on the struggle for gender equality on the internet, we will present Coral Herrera’s work in two parts.
We will close this installment with the first part of an on-line discussion we had with Coral, in which we talked about the role of new media in the struggle for gender equality.
Global Voices: How can new media challenge old media regarding the construction of romantic myths? / How can new media fall into the same role as traditional media?
Coral Herrera: Traditional media is still stuck in traditional patterns and in a worldview that is completely patriarchal and capitalist, they still sell us hegemonic ideology in the form of entertainment.
Advertising and mass culture transmit values that are totally selfish, individualistic, based on fear and on the permanent dissatisfaction of this age of consumption.
That’s why I think that the internet is one of the best things that has happened to us in recent years.
What is not so clear is whether we can live from this, because we have become accustomed to everything being free.
I myself can’t support the people I read due to my precarious situation in Spain, first of all, and secondly, as an immigrant in Costa Rica, though I pay the phone company so that I can be connected and access content.
And although I think that we still haven’t found the way to earn an income (though there are some cases of people living from this), I think the crises we are facing are making us more conscious of what we consume, where it comes from, and under what conditions it was produced.
The consumption of culture is now (and will be more and more) a political act, a demonstration of support for artists and thinkers who offer us stories in as many formats as possible.
The internet has been beneficial for culture in general because now we have access to choreographies, sculptures, films, news reports, video creations, songs, novels, essays, stories, short films, academic articles, photos… We as creators have more freedom to innovate and offer other models, other heroines, other situations, other forms of relating.
I definitely believe we are breaking away from the old narrative structures that reduced us to simplified conflicts.
GV: What do these new technologies mean for the fight for gender equality?
CH: Thanks to the internet, we are all transmitting content. less vulnerable to the construction of reality to the one imposed on us, because we can refute their affirmations, because we can make visible all those things that are kept hidden so that everything can stay the way it is.
It’s true that we have to assume that privacy is non-existent, that we are being watched, our data is being sold, and we are being censored, but even so I think that we have to be online.
GV: What advantages do you see in the use of new technologies for conversations about gender (especially in Latin America)?
CH: Well I’m very optimistic.
In spite of the digital divide that separates us, I think we are creating very important transnational networks of information and collective reflection.
These networks allow us to support each other, to make problems visible, to gather signatures and have political impact, to organise actions in the real world that will have an echo in the virtual world.
We can create synergies, lend each other ideas, copy models that work in other countries and adapt them to our local realities, we can teach each other, we can contribute to the construction of collective knowledge, and we can modify political agendas thanks to the echo that actions have in social media.
In the next part, which will be published next week, we will discuss with Coral the evolution of the fight for gender equality.
In the meantime, we recommend having a look at the Haika editorial project , managed by the author, where much of her work can be downloaded.
After 44 Years, Southeast Asian Games Return to Myanmar · Global Voices
Opening ceremonies of the 27th Southeast Asian games in Myanmar.
Photo from official Facebook page of SEA Games
After 44 years of long absence, South East Asian Games have once again returned to Myanmar.
The last time Myanmar hosted the game was in 1969 in Yangon.
The opening ceremony for the 27th SEA Games was held in the new capital city of Nay Pyi Taw on December 11 with the international media describing it as Myanmar's ravishing coming out party.
Actually, the government has conducted an aggressive SEA games awareness promotion in the country many months before the event.
To add a little bit of spice to what international and domestic media have reviewed, here are what netizens inside the country have been commenting throughout the games.
The opening ceremony was enthusiastically received and acclaimed by many people.
Aye Chan Mon shared an article dedicated to the opening ceremony of the SEA games.
The 27th SEA Games opening ceremony was celebrated on 11th December.
I'm not saying this because I am a Myanmar. But I am very proud as a Myanmar citizen for holding the ceremony with such splendor.
It has been many years that we have been afraid doing any events in the country. I would like to say that now we have seized our chance to reconstruct our dignity as Myanmar.
However, there are also people who tend to think negatively and are posting on Facebook to criticize.
Everyone has the freedom to criticize. I could not do anything but feel sad to see the criticism by our own people.
Instead of blaming among ourselves, I turn away to discover what international media are saying about the ceremony.
Then the article described the reviews written by the foreign media such as Malaysian Insider, Asia One, The Times of India, The Chronicle Journal and Bangkok Post.
At the end, the author concluded by saying:
Anyway if we look at the international reviews, there are more praise than criticism that we have performed beyond their expectations.
Let's think of this successful celebration of this ceremony as opening a door to the international community or the beginning of our path away from the dictatorship or our official announcement to the world.
Official mascot of the 27th SEA Games
Demo Wai Yan wrote in his blog:
We can see that there are many different views on the 27th SEA Games which we can have in our own land after 44 years. But we need to distinguish between our views.
Our athletes are trying very hard to bring their best for the game that is being held in our own land.
Today the competition of Myanmar athletes is not like making a propaganda film of the military regime but they are trying all they can for the country's image.
In this moment we have to support the athletes whether they win or lose.
Meanwhile, a minor riot broke out near the stadium in Yangon on December 16 when Myanmar lost to Indonesia 1-0 in football and could not make it to the finals.
Naturally, there was a huge public disappointment on the performance of the Myanmar football team.
Zaw Htet Han expressed his thoughts about the riot:
There is vandalism even in the countries that are successfully practicing democracy.
And there are also pyromaniacs.
Forget about the immature question whether Myanmar deserves democracy.
Every single country in the world deserves 100 percent democracy.
Myanmar's performance in the games reflected the country's weaknesses, according to Khin Maung Nyo:
At the moment, I am seeing things differently.
I see that the football match (especially the ones we lost) represent our weaknesses in economy and administration. It reflects the gap in our expectation and the reality, and our need for the development of human resources in different fields.
This cannot be done within a day or a night. It takes time.
On the other hand, the women football team was cheered by everyone for their giving their best even though they only got a bronze medal instead of gold.
Myanmar Political Jokes congratulated the women's team:
Although they lost unfortunately after the penalty shoot out, it was obvious that they have given their best for the country.
We are very proud of the Myanmar women football team.
It was a very exciting match for the thousands of audience in the stadium, in front of the TV and living abroad.
It feels almost crazy to watch both team playing intensely.
Actually the Myanmar audience are not blind about winning or losing. Audience knows if players have really tried.
And we are not afraid to face the failure.
People did not lose their mind for no apparent reason when Myanmar lost to Indonesia the other day. The audience who went to the match knew that the Myanmar men's football team had played not seriously enough to win the game.
This is why 60 millions fans were angry.
Today even when the women team has lost the game, we are very proud of them.
They have tried all their best until the end for the country.
Ye Htut also praised the team:
Thank you, young heroines for making Myanmar audience happy.
Their coordination, team spirit and selflessness are the examples that not only the footballers but also all of us should take.
After the closing ceremony, he also highlighted the victories of ethnic athletes:
180 of the medals were obtained by the ethnic athletes such as Kachin, Kayar, Chin, Mon, Shan and Rakhine.
When we said that we are going to have these games, people from both inside and outside the country have doubted if we would have the ability.
They asked whether Myanmar athletes would be able to do that.
Now, together with all the ethnic people in the country, we have proven that they are wrong.
With this kind of spirit, let us journey to the future country.
4 Stories from Volunteers in Typhoon-Hit Philippines That Will Move You To Tears · Global Voices
A street full of debris in Tacloban.
Photo from Tudla
Also see Haiyan Devastates the Philippines, our special coverage page.
Almost a month has passed since super typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) hit the central part of the Philippines.
Many towns were completely devastated by the storm surge which killed more than 5,000 thousand and left millions homeless.
Typhoon survivors initially complained about the slow arrival of food, water, medicine and other urgent aid.
Remote towns couldn’t be reached because of bad roads and other logistical problems.
Responding to criticism, the national government assured the public that it is doing everything to extend assistance to all disaster victims.
The widespread destruction caused by Haiyan inspired a global relief and rehabilitation effort.
In the Philippines, thousands volunteered in relief and repacking centers.
Many also travelled to the typhoon-hit villages where they documented the extent of damage left by Haiyan while providing much needed assistance to refugees.
These volunteers were able to share photos, videos and stories of what they witnessed in Samar and Leyte.
Their documentation validated earlier reports about the deadly impact of Haiyan and the slow response of government offices.
Here's are four stories from the ground.
1.
Michael Beltran described the scene outside Tacloban airport. Tacloban is capital of Leyte and the 'ground zero' of the typhoon disaster: The first image of our week in Leyte was an airport with people shivering and hungry on the one side, being ignored by the military and US Navy, and boxes and boxes of goods on the other.
Apart from any physical structure that’s barely standing, what struck me the most was the grass and trees. Absent of any pigmentation, still upright, dry, no mud, just dead plants as far as the eye could see; trees with branches and leaves, frozen in the opposite direction of the wind brought by the supertyphoon.
After the pictures of the body bags in the public market in Tacloban, I stopped taking shots. I had to comprehend the fact that 2 weeks after Typhoon Haiyan, bodies were still being recovered, people were still living near decaying corpses, and there's an effort by the national gov't to downplay the casualty count and cover up official incompetence in dealing with the calamity.
3.
Tent and candle towns are rising in Samar and Leyte, wrote environmentalist Leon Dulce:
We personally witnessed tent and candle towns rising above the debris amidst persisting rainfall.
Fisher folks lost all their boats and other implements to the storm surges, while farmers can only stare at the hectares upon hectares of uprooted coconut trees and flooded rice fields.
Many survivors waited for several days before aid was provided to them.
Photo from Antonio Tinio
A curfew was imposed in many typhoon-hit villages to maintain peace and order, specifically to prevent widespread looting.
Electricity will be restored in two to three months.
Meanwhile, electric cables are still useful for those who need to dry their clothes.
4.
Thousands of typhoon survivors are leaving Samar and Leyte.
Many are migrating to Manila and other urban centers like Davao.
Professor Mae Fe Templa explained how migration also reflected the loss of trust in the government:
The migration of survivors indicate the rising problem of people having lost trust in government.
The movement of Yolanda survivors from Leyte to anywhere in the country indicates two things: One is government inaction as people lose trust in government. Two, is the people’s initiative to transform their own lives and redefine ways of living under extreme conditions of poverty and climate change
Grounded ship along Anibong road in Tacloban City.
Many farmers also lost their livelihood in Marabut, Samar.
A damaged house in Hernani, Eastern Samar.
Photo from April Val Montes
A typewriter was one of the salvaged things in Balangkaya, Eastern Samar.
A mass grave marker in Palo, Leyte.
Photo from Pher Pasion
The 16-year-old Saudi who is Fighting in Syria · Global Voices
Since the civil war has broken in Syria, various Jihadist groups have been trying to attract young people to join their armies.
The continuous reported footage of massacres over that period has provided an intense tool to mobilize thousands of ultraconservatives to join these groups; and Saudi Arabia has been one of the major sources of Jihadist fighters.
Moath, after arriving to Syria. via @twit_rima
Last week, one particular story received major attention within the Saudi Twittersphere when a 16-year-old, Moath al-Hamili, arrived to Syria to join these groups.
Moath is the son of Reema al-Jourish, who has been known for her very active role in opposing the arbitrary imprisonment of her husband, Abdullah al-Hamili, who has been imprisoned for 10 years without a court ruling.
In fact, a judge issued a release order for him, but he was kept imprisoned.
Back in February, al-Jourish was one of the women who participated in a very publicized sit-in, before they were arrested and imprisoned for weeks.
Her family's house was under siege, and her children were prohibited from contacting anyone.
Moath was also arrested when he demanded the release of his mother.
On Wednesday, al-Jourish tweeted :
@twit_rima: Thank you, Allah, for all of your blessings.
My son, Moath, has arrived to Syria.
I ask Allah to give him strength.
She continued:
@twit_rima: My son has been harassed within for supporting prisoners.
I would not let him be taken easily by the tyrants.
The land of dignity and glory is more merciful for him.
al-Hayat newspaper published a short story about her, in which it stated: She said: "A representative from the Interior Ministry whose name was Um Mohammad was warning me from my son, Moath." al-Jourish responded to the story by tweeting:
Al-Hayat newspaper reported my statements the way they wanted.
I want to let the journalist know that I have recorded the phone call.
First of all, the Interior representative did not warn me from my son, but rather threatened me.
She said that he would be next to his father in the prison.
She also threatened me by mentioning my daughter. She said that I would lose them.
I also told that I prefer having my son in Syria to having him in prisons of the secret police.
He has witnessed the effects of torture and he heard from his father what had happened to him in prison.
I do not want the tragedy of his father to be repeated. I prefer having him in the land of dignity and breathing freedom than being in the prisons of the secret police under torture.
The newspaper didn't also mention that the secret police also harasses me and tries to psychologically torture me. It didn't also mention that my husband has a release order.
The Twittersphere reaction was mixed.
Jihadist sympathizers were excited about the news and took it as a chance to encourage more young people to join the battle.
On the other hand, so many people accused the mother of recklessness and endangering the life of her son.
Nada A writes:
Worse than a woman who sends her child to die in the so-called Jihad are those who cheer for her.
Where are we going?!
Several of those who had previously participated in peaceful political action have turned into these violent, ultraconservative groups after they had been arrested and sentenced to prison.
Currently-imprisoned member of the defiant Saudi Civil and Political Rights Association (ACPRA) Mohammad al-Qahtani has even reported that the Interior Ministry encourages prisoners to go fight in Syria:
@MFQahtani: A new scandal for the Saudi Interior Ministry: They offered to release some young prisoners who were arrested for demonstrating if they agreed to go to fight in Syria.
Furthermore, ACPRA member Abdullah al-Hamid has also reported similar incidences by judges:
@Abubelal_1951: The mother of Mohammad al-Talaq, who was killed in Syria, said in her letter to the king: Judge al-Husni warned my son and his 19 fellow demonstrators from demonstrating and incited them to fight the Shiite there !
#Euromaidan Protests: 'We Fight to Remain Ukraine' · Global Voices
After police brutally beat and dispersed protesters in Kyiv on the eight day of #Euromaidan protests and Ukrainian authorities banned peaceful protests and citizen gatherings until January 8, 2014, protesters regrouped and gathered again, this time in larger numbers, to protest in Kyiv and several other Ukrainian cities.
Many of the protests were peaceful, but a smaller group of more aggressive demonstrators clashed with police, launching chains, fire, and smoke bombs at officers, who responded with tear gas and light and sound grenades.
After the police brutality ordered by Ukrainian authorities "to clear Independence Square for mounting the traditional Christmas tree", the protest movement began calling online for citizens to mobilize again nationwide on December 1, 2013.
The reactions of police and Ukrainian officials to the week-long protests against the government's decision to put a halt to a historic agreement that would bring Ukraine one step closer to the European Union seems only to have angered citizens and encouraged more protests.
More than one million Ukrainians from around the country came into the streets of Ukraine's capital on December 1 to express their disagreement with the government's actions.
The Twitter account of Euromaidan organizers summarized the protesters' feelings with the following phrase :
We have taken over Maidan, and .
A group of more aggressive protesters, however, did not stop at Maidan, but moved on to the Presidential Administration building.
Soon the protesters were face-to-face with riot police again, who were tasked with protecting the institution.
Several people found an abandoned bulldozer, brought it to the site and tried to use it to penetrate the police lines .
Russia Today captured this incident:
Some protesters also used chains, fire, and smoke bombs against the police.
The situation that ensued has been the most tense moment of the protests to date.
Initially, police used tear gas, light and sound grenades in an attempt to fight off the protesters.
Upon realizing that serious violence may ensue, many have started calling on opposition leaders to try to prevent the protesters from provoking authorities to call on special forces.
At the time, the opposition was holding a press conference in the Kyiv City Administration building.
Several activists including singer Sashko Polozhynsky and activist Oleksandr Solontai reached the venue before members of parliament.
Polozhynski claimed the bulldozer and tried to appeal to the protesters to keep the protests peaceful.
The now official Євромайдан Twitter account described the scene:
After the conflicts of protesters with police, the opposition publicly condemned the violence, calling aggressive protesters "provocators" and stressing the peaceful nature of protests.
MPs were seen convincing people to stop the aggression near Presidential Administration and return to Maidan for peaceful protests.
Photo by Alexandra Gnatoush. Used with permission.
New design of Khreshchatyk.
Maksym Savanevsky from Kyiv added :
Right now there are fewer people on Maidan than during the day, but still at least 150,000.
As of the end of the day on December 1, 2013, protesters in Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities are standing their ground.
The opposition has announced that on Monday, December 2, they will call on protesters to block the Cabinet building, their main demand being that the government resigns.
#Euromaidan protesters fill central Kyiv on Dec. 1, 2013.
Chairman Mao Is Greater Than Nelson Mandela, Chinese Leftists Say · Global Voices
Since the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) declared ideological war on online public opinion leaders on popular microblogging site Sina Weibo in August, many liberal bloggers have withdrawn from the platform while leftists and fans of China's red culture are more vocal than ever.
With the death of Nelson Mandela, the internationally beloved former president of South Africa, on December 5, 2013, that political tilt was on full display as Maoist and nationalistic left-wing Weibo users took the opportunity to praise Chinese communist revolutionary and Mandela inspiration Mao Zedong and, surprisingly, criticize state-controlled media outlets for giving too many compliments to Mandela.
Screen capture from Chinese Central Television's news feature on the life of Nelson Mandela
During its review of Mandela's life, Chinese Central Television (CCTV) highlighted that Mandela had cited first generation leaders of the Chinese Communist Party—Chairman Mao, Zhou Enlai and Zhu De—as sources of inspiration for his struggle in South Africa.
According to the broadcast, Mandela even celebrated China's October 1 National Day with his prisonmates while incarcerated.
On Weibo, Maoists and left-wing nationalists, who are critical of capitalistic China and are in favor of more Maoist-style socialism, knocked CCTV's gracious treatment of Mandela and praised Chairman Mao instead.
"Mr Ouyang", a microblogger upholding Marxist and Maoist thought, wrote:
Mandela was a nationalist and had fought for equality and freedom for his race.
We should mourn for his death.
However, the Chinese media has given him too many compliments.
Mandela's impact is limited and did not not develop any coherent thought.
He was not even charismatic.
The impact of China's Mao Zedong on the world and contribution to people of the world are outstanding.
Mandela called himself a student of Chairman Mao.
Some people want to downgrade Mao Zedong by comparing him with others, they are wasting their time.
Comments like this are more common thanks to the revival of Mao's legacy as a communist leader under current President Xi Jinping.
Members of China's New Left are now taking every opportunity to reestablish the "greatness" of Mao, and Mandela's death is the latest excuse.
"Windy Valley", who used Mao's selected writings as his profile picture, also criticized CCTV for giving too much credit to Mandela, writing:
To be frank, I don't understand why India's Gandhi and South Africa's Mandela receive so much praise.
Of course they were great, that's all.
But Chairman Mao surpassed them all.
We should place words like "divine" and "unprecedented" in front of Mao Zedong's name.
While Mandela saw racial discrimination and segregation, Mao Zedong saw the class conflict and struggle behind the racial problem.
This is the difference .
A portrait combining the images of current President Xi Jinping and Chairman Mao to capture the revival of Mao.
Image uploaded to Twitter by @feng37
"Red River", also a self-proclaimed Maoist, recited CCTV's report and added his own comment:
Mandela: Mao Zedong, Zhou Enlai, Zhu De, the old generation's revolutionists and the Chinese people lent support to the South African people's struggle against racial segregation and for independence.
The Long March and Chinese Revolution gave the South African people inspiration.
How the South African people hold Mandela in their hearts is like how Chinese people hold Mao Zedong in their hearts, their images are loftier than the highest mountain and will last forever.
In response to why Mao does not enjoy the same praise both within China and worldwide, @risingfromash, who is a self-described patriot youth, said:
Mao Zedong is the only one in the whole world to have broken all the chains that enslaved the Chinese people and helped them to stand up.
Mandela and Gandhi did not help their people to win all that they deserved.
That's why the west hates and fears Maoist thought, but keeps flattering Gandhi and Mandela.
@guojizhuanjia, who used the Maoist slogan "anti-Soviet, prevent a capitalist revival" in his profile description, highlighted Mandela's view on the Tibetan independence movement:
Mandela had bowed to racism.
His views on world politics resemble white people's.
Although he was put in prison by white people, he gave up his determination to struggle against racism.
His consideration of the Tibetan independence movement as a human rights movement was a big, big mistake.
He is a banana with dark skin.
Some stuck up for Mandela in the face of racially charged taunts.
Huang Yen, a IT worker, was angry at the Maoist comments:
Please don't insult Mandela using Mao Zedong.
Both did not have antidotes for solving their countries' fundamental problems.
Mandela never launched the Cultural Revolution and never implemented collectives which resulted in famine.
Mandela did not indulge in power, he chose to retire and contributed to charity works against the spread of AIDS.
He passed on the government to the next generation in peace with a democratic system.
Writer Meng Qingde commented:
Mandela probably had studied Mao Zedong. But he did not become Mao Zedong.
South Africa is lucky, or it would have gone through a series of tragedies related to class struggle and national resentment.
If that happened, Mandela would not be respected and missed by the world.
Ukraine: Hackers Disable Government Websites in Protest of Police Brutality · Global Voices
There has been a series of cyber attacks on Ukrainian government websites after police brutally dispersed peaceful Euromaidan protests in Kyiv in support of Ukraine's European integration on November 30.
On December 1, many of the government websites in Ukraine were hacked and blocked , including the official website of the President of Ukraine, Ministry of Interior of Ukraine and the official Government portal.
As of 10:00 am CET, December 1, the Presidential website and the website of the Ministry of Interior's were still down, while the Government portal is accessible again.
As Global Voices reported, this is not the first time tech-savvy Ukrainian citizens have demonstrated their dissatisfaction with the Ukrainian government by disabling its websites or leaking government information.
VIDEO: "No Woman, No Drive" Stuns Saudi Arabia · Global Voices
Today, October 26, was the day Saudi activists chose to protest against the driving ban on women in the Kingdom.
As social networks were buzzing under increasing number of reports of women driving across the country, a brilliant a capella remake of Bob Marley's "No Woman, No Cry" spread at the speed of light, in a sound support of brave women challenging conservative sexist legislation and pseudo-scientific justification of them being prohibited to enjoy freedom of movement:
VIDEOS: Ukraine's Police Brutally Beat #Euromaidan Protesters to "Clear" Square · Global Voices
In the early hours of Saturday, riot police surrounded and beat hundreds of camped Ukrainian protesters, many of whom were asleep, at Independence Square in the capital Kyiv, the site of week-long peaceful "Euromaidan" rallies, in support of Ukraine's integration with Europe.
According to citizen photos and videos, on November 30, 2013, the police tried to intimidate and forcefully remove protesters from the square, by beating them with batons, chasing unarmed protesters, and even kicking and beating protesters who fell to the ground while trying to escape.
Witnesses say police did not discriminate, beating young women and journalists, including a Reuters photographer Gleb Garanich .
Night before the brutal police attack
After the Ukrainian government failed to fulfill demands of protesters and sign the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement in Vilnius on November 29, coordinators of the protests called on people to regroup and gather again on Sunday, December 1.
A call to a nation-wide protest circulated online.
The text reads: "Defend your children against and your country - against the dictatorship! December 1 at 12:00″While some protesters went back to their homes after the announcement on Friday, others remained through the night at the main protest site in Kyiv, Maidan Nezalezhnosti (Independence Square).Reports say that the majority of those attacked by police were students, some of whom had traveled from other regions to participate in the Euromaidan rallies.
"Square needed to be cleared for Christmas tree"
According to city officials, police needed to disperse protesters so that the square could be prepared for installing the traditional Christmas tree on the square.
According to media reports and eye-witness accounts, however, the brutal force used by police was uncalled for and unjustified.
Shock and anger spreads
Ukrainian singer and 2004 Eurovision contest winner, Ruslana, who has spent several days with the protesters in Independence Square, posted this statement on her Facebook page:
We have taken cover at Mykhailivsky Cathedral...
There are about a hundred of us...
There are injured .
Maidan is taken. It is impossible to enter it!
I tried.
Told them I left my personal belongings there, to which replied that everything has been thrown away already.
We are waiting for the representatives of international media and embassies of foreign states.
An opposition MP, Andriy Shevchenko, who later aided in the release detained protesters, tweeted:
Maidan was brutally cleared.
Dozens are injured. Dozens are detained.
Ukraine has seen nothing like this before.
Many social media users circulated photos that corroborated accounts of eyewitnesses.
A new media analyst and blogger, Vitaliy Moroz, said:
(photo) The evidence of police using brutal force against protesters in Ukraine #euromaidan, #ukraine #євромайдан pic.twitter.com/HFSeNBBBTC — Vitalii Moroz (@vitaliymoroz) November 30, 2013
A foreign freelance journalist in Kyiv, Just Hovens Greve, tweeted:
#Ukraine's opposition leader Yatsenyuk:"This morning we woke up in Belarus" (via http://t.co/p7SBSQqO0R) #Євромайдан pic.twitter.com/jPElxGom5i — Just Hovens Greve (@JustHovensGreve) November 30, 2013
As shock from the morning's horrendous events subsided, many began to express anger both online and offline.
Throughout the day, people gathered to protest police brutality in Kyiv and other cities.The pictures of these spontaneous protests were circulated widely on social media.
Radio Svoboda (RFE/RL) shared this photo on Twitter:
Youth on the Independence Square, sitting under the to express their protest
Ukrainian daily Ukrainska Pravda, shared a photo of police protecting what was until recently the main protest site, on its Twitter account.
The inscription next to the policemen reads "Happy Bloody New Year!":
Maidan after the police break up. 30.11.2013.
Photo by Mykhailo Petyakh
Opposition party Svoboda posted this photo of a girl with a sign that reads "Choke on your Christmas tree!" , which immediately went viral on social networks. Mykhailivska: Articles from Ukraine's Constitution, UN Statute, and Bible verses are posted on the stanchions
9 Things the Russian Government Says Are "Gay Propaganda" · Global Voices
Gay rights activists kiss as they are detained by police officers during a gay rights protest in St. Petersburg, Russia, 12 October 2013, photo by Jordi Bernabeu Farrús, CC 2.0.
Though it seems to have appeared on the Internet no later than December 2, 2013, Russian bloggers have suddenly discovered government censors’ revised criteria for recognizing information online that supposedly endangers minors.
Russians can thank Roskomnadzor, the federal agency responsible for overseeing the media, for the new reading material, which spans roughly two thousand pages and twenty different sections.
Many, however, are limiting their attention to Section 6 of the document, awkwardly titled “Criteria of Internet Content Harmful for Children’s Health and Development.”
Even the report’s authors confess that the subject is quite “heterogeneous,” making it difficult to determine “unambiguous criteria” for identifying offending material.
To resolve problems with definitions, Roskomnadzor adopts broad parameters, designating anything published online as “systematically disseminated” information.
To qualify as propaganda, the agency concludes, the content must also contain “false information” and have been produced with the intent of influencing public opinion:
Usually, propaganda is understood as the systematic dissemination of facts, arguments, rumors, and other information (including deliberately misleading information) for influencing public opinion.
Thus, to qualify information as propaganda, it is necessary to establish that the author of the information wishes to influence public opinion, that the dissemination of the information is of a systematic nature, and that the disseminated information contains false information.
That all these criteria are subjective certainly complicates the expert review process.
At the same time, it should be noted that the nature of information disseminated on the Internet allows us to regard it as systematic.
According to Roskomnadzor, information on the Internet can transform the family values of children and teenagers in the following ways: Manipulating facts and statistical data to discredit the traditional family model, propagating alternative models of domestic relations, and presenting them as permissible under certain circumstances.
Using vivid images to provoke “intense emotional reactions” that discredit the traditional family model and propagate alternative models of domestic relations.
Selectively depicting alternative models of behavior, “hiding all the negative aspects of these models, and showing only the positives.”
Influencing the self-conception and self-identity of teenagers, “exploiting their interest in sex,” and luring them into homosexuality with “colorful previews.”
9 Things the Russian Government Says Are "Gay Propaganda"
In addition to these ground rules, Roskomnadzor offers some colorful examples of its own to help state censors identify information on the Internet that is “harmful to minors.”
The following is a list of what the government considers “gay propaganda.”
1) Arguing that traditional families don’t meet the needs of modern society or the modern individual.
(This includes propagating the idea that the traditional family model has “lost many of its functions and become an obstacle to the free development of individuals.”)
2) Information (contained in either images or prose) that justifies and (or) otherwise vindicates the acceptability of “alternative family relations.”
(This includes websites that publish “out-of-context” statistics about children adopted by gay and straight couples, which could lead children and teens to believe that gay couples are “no worse than straight couples at coping with parental responsibilities.”)
3) Using “intense emotional images” to discredit traditional family models and propagate alternative family models.
(This seems to include virtually any attempt to portray heterosexual relationships negatively and homosexual relationships favorably.)
4) Information that contains “images of behavior associated with the denial of the traditional family model” that promotes gay relationships.
(This includes all “graphic demonstrations, in the form of pictures, photographs, or videos, of non-traditional sexual relations,” possibly encompassing even gay pornography.)
5) Instructions on how to experiment with gay sex.
6) Sharing the stories of minors who have “rejected traditional family values, entered into gay relationships, and shown disrespect to their parents and (or) other relatives.”
(This might include the “It Gets Better” project.)
7) Information that “influences the formation of adolescents’ self-identity” by “exploiting their interest in sex.”
(This includes “false allegations” about the prevalence of homosexual relationships among teenagers in modern society.)
8) Depicting gay people as role models.
(This includes publishing lists of famous living and deceased gay individuals.)
9) The final “gay propaganda” criterion is perhaps the broadest, including anything that either “approves or encourages” gay people in their homosexuality.
Russian Conspiracy Theories about Maidan's First Blood · Global Voices
Since street protests over European integration first broke out in Kiev last November, the ideological battle lines dividing Russian Internet users haven’t changed much.
Western-leaning liberals generally embrace the Ukrainian opposition, whereas conservatives and many of the self-proclaimed “geopolitical” thinkers fear “losing Ukraine” would deliver a strong blow to Russia’s national interests.
Regularly topping LiveJournal’s Russian-language traffic are two distinct kinds of reportage on Ukraine: first, there are the largely opposition-sympathetic photo blogs by photographers like Rustem Adagamov (and slightly more ambiguous work by Ilya Varlamov), and, second, there are the deeply anti-opposition posts by bloggers spreading conspiracy theories about terrorist plots and Western interventions designed to undermine the Ukrainian authorities.
Given the lack of eyewitnesses, the murder of Serhiy Nigoyan, Maidan’s first shooting fatality, has naturally attracted lots of speculation about who was responsible.
Nigoyan died from bullet wounds on January 22, 2014, near Dynamo stadium on Grushevsky Street in Kiev, where skirmishes against police have been most intense.
Nigoyan had been serving as an informal security guard for Maidan protestors.
Twenty-years-old, handsome, and apparently quite friendly, Nigoyan had become a fixture of Kiev’s protest scenery, even starring in an unfinished film documentary.
(A clip from his interview in this project is now available on YouTube, see below.)
Though police have not concluded their investigation, Nigoyan is thought to have died from sniper fire.
The dominant narrative among protestors and Western journalists, it seems, is that Ukrainian Special Forces shot him dead .
Ukraine’s Interior Ministry, on the other hand, claims that its officers do not carry the type of ammunition that killed Nigoyan.
Further thickening the plot, Ukrainian police say not a single eyewitness has come forward to deliver a statement explaining how Nigoyan died.
The day of the murder, after the popular Twitter account “EuroMaidan” posted a photo (later deleted) of unidentified snipers atop a building, Moscow-based blogger Denis Travin and others jumped at the opportunity to show that the photograph in the tweet was actually from Kyrgyzstan in April 2010.
Other Russian bloggers have been more willing to accept the role of snipers in Nigoyan’s murder, but some have also embraced extremely elaborate conspiracy theories about the gunmen’s identity.
LiveJournal user ermalex76, for instance, argues in a blog post that the American military was behind the killing, citing the irregular ammo used, and the supposedly curious proximity of a (US-funded) Radio Liberty journalist to the site of the shooting. Blaming Gene Sharp, an American political scientist famous for his work on anti-government resistance movements, ermalex76 explains that “Sharp’s Plan” calls for the creation of “sacred martyrs,” in order to motivate protestors.
(The blogger goes on to clarify that Yulia Timoshenko would make the perfect sacrifice, but her continued imprisonment makes it too difficult to kill her.)
Indeed, in an op-ed in the newspaper Izvestia, Russian opposition figure (and perennial gadfly of Russian liberals) Eduard Limonov also entertained the idea that someone was posing as police snipers, as a ploy to catalyze protest sentiment.
From Nigoyan's Vk account. Other conspiracy theorists have turned their attention away from the killers and onto the victim, opening the door to character assassinations of Nigoyan.
Following his death, it wasn’t long before bloggers discovered Nigoyan’s account on Russia’s largest social network, Vkontakte, where he posted methodically about Armenia.
RuNet users did not fail to miss old photos of Nigoyan in army fatigues at a firing range.
Presumably, this was during his mandatory military service in Ukraine (not Armenia, which Nigoyan never once visited), though another post raised suspicions of terrorist affiliations.
On November 21, 2013, Nigoyan put up a picture celebrating ASALA, the redundantly titled “Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia,” a now extinct organization that spent the 1980s listed as a terrorist organization by the United States.
While no proof whatsoever has emerged linking Nigoyan to terrorism, it seems the rumor found a receptive audience even in Ukraine’s highest echelons of power.
Sources close to the negotiations between the opposition and the government told journalist Tatiana Nikolaenko that President Yanukovich originally rebuffed accusations that the police were killing protesters.
“Listen, guys, this was an Armenian terrorist,” the President allegedly said during talks, in the government’s defense.
Argentina: Intense Heat Affects Polar Bear in Captivity · Global Voices
Arturo, a bear in captivity at the Mendoza zoo in Argentina, is suffering from the heat waves.
The general population has not been indifferent and want the bear to be in conditions that allow him to endure the high temperatures.
There is already a precedent in Argentina, when polar bear Winner died due to the high temperatures that are experienced during the summer months.
Arturo is the only polar bear in Argentina.
On his blog, Marcos Abarza Baumann writes about the conditions in which the bear is currently living:
The conditions that Arturo the bear is living in at Mendoza's zoo are deplorable, yet they continue to outrage us even more everyday: There is now a video going around on YouTube that shows the zoo employees using hoses to refresh the animal that is still living in the same enclosure while they finish building a new one.
THEY THROW WATER ON AN ANIMAL THAT LIVES IN THE ICE TO IMITATE BELOW-FREEZING TEMPERATURES.
This seems like a joke but it's not, look:
The Facebook page POLAR BEAR Arturo tells the story of the fight that has been going on since October 2012, even though as of now nothing has changed:
A NEW YEAR HAS BEGUN...
BUT EVERYTHING IS STILL THE SAME
Arturo is still enclosed in his box of cement and sky blue paint.- We began this fight in October of 2012, we've already raised our glasses twice for him... and nothing.
Meanwhile, Duende Visual is asking of the authorities that Argentina be a pioneering country in animal rights:
We can make Argentina into a country that is a pioneer of animal rights, where endangered species can be protected as they should be, and given a place where they can live freely and happily. We can raise awareness throughout the population, turning the animals into our brothers and sisters, and not raising the new generations to believe that animals are goods or things.
Twitter also echoed the situation, as we see in these two recent tweets: Why aren't the authorities in Mendoza doing anything?
Hundreds of Local Chinese Lawmakers Dismissed Over Massive Bribery Scandal · Global Voices
China's southern Hengyang city has dismissed most members of its legislature after they were found to have taken millions of dollars in bribes in a massive election fraud.
According to the report from Hunan Daily published on December 28, 3013, 518 Hengyang lawmakers and 68 staff members were found to have accepted bribes, and 512 lawmakers were dismissed.
Provincial authorities disqualified 56 delegates who were found to have paid more than 18 million US dollars in bribes to gain entry to the provincial body.
According to Qiao Mu, director of the Center for International Communication Studies at Beijing Foreign Studies University, becoming a member of the congress opens up a network for contact with politicians and business people.
The cash-for-vote problem has become more widespread since the party introduced competitive elections at the local level a few years ago.
State media Xinhua wrote:
Thorough investigations and severe punishment must be done to maintain the party's reverence and the people's trust in the country's fundamental political system.
China Daily explained the significance of authorities' reaction:
Bribery scandal in Hengyang shows strengthened efforts to build a clean and transparent election system are necessary.
The bribery scandal has many web users asking, is the bribery limited to Hengyang alone?
Lawyer Huang Leping wondered :
Where does the money come from?
How much benefit does one receive after the election?
Hengyang's bribery scandal has exposed the problems at the root of the existing electoral system, two sources support the elections: one is money, one is power.
Journalist Shi Shusi raised a few questions:
Hunan did cover the Hengyang bribery scandal this time, which is worth applauding, it serves as an alarm for the election throughout the NPC.
However, the fundamental question is: What's the main source of the bribery?
How can it be effectively prevented from happening in the future?
How can an open and fair election be guaranteed?
TV host Zhang Liyuan echoed:
This is by no means an individual bribery case, if you do not give people the real right to vote, elections are just a show performed by the officials.
Regulating a democratic electoral system is the key, it's not just about punishing a few bribery cadres.
User "Hong Jingtian" thought the election itself is far from ordinary people's lives:
In fact, the Hunan bribery case is just the tip of the iceberg.
Look at nationwide village elections, bribery is a common phenomenon.
For ordinary people, whoever becomes the official doesn't make any difference, whoever gives them money will get the vote.
After all, the people elected are all the same.
According to social media, the Hengyang bribery scandal was not a secret.
Earlier this year, the case was circulated among some investigative journalists in China, but they weren't able to publish due to pressure and censorship.
Doctor Liu Yun from the Haikou College of Economics wrote:
In addition to exposing the drawbacks of the electoral system, it's worth noting that such a large-scale bribery case was only able to be identified and exposed with the highest level of direct intervention from the central government.
Shall We Start with the Good News? · Global Voices
They say every cloud has a silver lining.
Photo by Matthew Perkins on Flickr (CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)
Here's the good news: Throughout the years, Global Voices has brought you countless stories of human hope, bravery and creativity from all over the world.
And here's the bad: Like other news sites, we're often guilty of focusing on negatives and perhaps even of depressing you.
Do you look forward to reading Global Voices?
Or are you put off by the seemingly endless stream of stories of injustice and human suffering?
In 2014 we're planning on pursuing more solution driven journalism, and hopefully showing more light and humanity than darkness and despair.
This does not mean we will ignore the bad things, like violence or poverty. But we do want to highlight more positive developments.
In fact we’ve already started doing it, by posting stories about good news you never heard from Yemen, or millions of children in Bangladesh receiving free textbooks, or how Angolans use the internet to preserve their languages.
So many of our stories are centered on online social movements and citizens mobilizing to improve their societies.
We want to tell this news in a way that inspires hope, rather than falling back on the more negative framing of regular mainstream news media.
For starters, we've created a new Good News category on Global Voices.
At the end of December, we hosted a conversation on GV Face about this idea between our co-founder Ethan Zuckerman, our deputy editor, Sahar H. Ghazi, advocacy editor, Ellery Biddle, and myself.
It's going to be a long term effort to gradually change the way we tell stories together with our authors and editors.
We're following the lead of many other websites and news organizations who are pioneering this type of reporting under the headings like positive news, solutions-driven journalism, constructive reporting, and similar.
Even the Huffington Post has a Good News section (though you'll probably find more cute pet stories there than you ever will on Global Voices).
The world we want you to experience on Global Voices is beautiful.
It's inhabited by brave and creative individuals who believe in making the world a better place.
Maybe we can even give our readers a sense that there's something they can do to help too.
Take a look at our Good News and let us know what else you’d like to see on Global Voices.
Council of Europe Condemns Deterioration of Human Rights in Spain · Global Voices
Queue outside a soup kitchen.
Photo from the blog «Verdad y justicia, por Dios» Council of Europe (CoE) commissioner Nils Muiznieks visited Spain in July in order to gather information on the state of human rights in the country.
On October 9th, the CoE published the report written following this visit, in which the commissioner condemns the serious deterioration of human rights as a result of austerity measures.
The report also denounces the recent actions of the riot police:
Children are disproportionately affected by cuts in the budgets for social assistance, health and education, and by the reduction in family benefits, which have caused some children to suffer poverty and nutritional problems.
(…)
The commissioner also states his concern regarding the fact that the economic crisis has had a negative impact on programmes and policies aimed at promoting the inclusion of disabled persons.
(…) The commissioner also states his concern over reports of the disproportionate use of force – including the use of rubber bullets- by the security forces during anti-austerity protests (…) The frequent failure by agents to wear identification, above all at protests, has impeded the accusation and punishment of those who commit abuse. (…) The commissioner urges the Spanish government to put an end to the long-established practice, based on a law from 1870, to pardon members of the security forces who are convicted of serious human rights violations, including torture.
The Council of Europe is an organisation which includes 47 European countries and whose mission is to protect citizens' rights.
The CoE does not depend upon the European Union, despite the fact that all EU states are members of the Council of Europe (although they are not its only members).
Its best-known institution is the European Court of Human Rights whose headquarters is located in Strasbourg.
The report highlights the decline in universal healthcare which inhabitants of the country enjoyed until 2012.
According to eldiario.es :
The ministry led by Ana Mato has excluded immigrants with irregular status from accessing public healthcare. (…) "Huge cuts in medical personnel, in funding for public health centres and other primary health services, the closure of accident and emergency departments and copayment for medicines".
Público compiles comments on education made in the report:
Muiznieks warns that "significant cuts in education during the last three years are endangering equality of opportunity and mean that children who are in difficulty have less access to a quality education."
Finally, he criticises the withdrawal of Education for Citizenship and calls for the reintroduction of subjects dealing with human rights.
The report also highlights the problem of forced evictions, as euroxpress explains:
The commissioner has asked the government that prior to an eviction affecting minors, "it should be checked that there is alternative, adequate and affordable accommodation, and that this should be provided in the case of families with children, regardless of their age."
Riot police detain a young woman injured at a protest.
Photo from the blog «El aullido» With reference to the brutality of riot police units at protests in recent years, Público explains:
The situation on the streets, as well as in police stations, prisons and Detention Centres for Foreigners (CIEs), which the commission has observed surprised the European envoys.
"The investigation indicates an excessive use of force by security agents at anti-austerity protests in 2011 and 2012, which brought to light human rights violations which had been taking place for years"
This report has been widely discussed on social networks and other media.
Jartito criticises the ruling party in El País :
The PP already knows, and very well too, who their actions harm and who they benefit, and in the case of police repression, the party needs it to be able to perpetrate its policies against the people.
Esparbe provides a reminder of other international organisations which have also recently condemned the Spanish government's actions in Huffington Post :
In your face!
The Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, the UN, UNESCO, international organisations of all kinds bringing the actions of a fascistic government into the spotlight, and they have such a cheek that they withstand all that and more without even ruffling their feathers, and off they go to high mass on Sundays.
On the same site, Pilar1234 displays a more pessimistic outlook:
Great report.
Shame that Mariano's only going to use it to wipe his a*** with.
Evolution of the rate of poverty in Spain (2004-2011).
Image from eldiario.es, under licence CC-BY-SA.
Luisa Sánchez writes the following on the blog Impresiones de una periodista en paro :
(…) the current Executive doesn't appear to be concerned by the dramas which it is causing, worrying only about guaranteeing the prosperity of the oligarchy of money which increased by 13% in the last financial year, according to a report by the bank Credit Suisse, which calculates that 402,000 Spaniards have assets worth more than 740,000 euros.
Contrast this figure with the huge number of families who do not receive any kind of assistance, or if they are lucky enough to do so, they have been reduced to the ridiculous amount of 291 euros, as the European Commissioner for Human Rights points out, scandalised.
This scolding of Mariano Rajoy's government comes on top of others it has received in recent weeks from the United Nations, which published a report criticising the way in which the Spanish government is hindering the investigation of the crimes of the Franco era , and from the OSCE, which has included Spain in its blacklist of countries lacking freedom after the Spanish authorities refused to allow its envoys to monitor the anti-monarchy demonstration held on September 28th.
Russia’s Parliament Prepares New “Anti-Terrorist” Laws for Internet · Global Voices
Graffiti in Moscow, June 2013.
Photo by Victor Grigas via Wikimedia Commons (CC BY-SA 3.0)
Another Internet crackdown appears to be looming in Russia, where the Duma is reviewing three new pieces of proposed “anti-terror” legislation that could place hefty restrictions on the activities of website operators and civil society organizers.
Two of the bills address government surveillance powers—one would create new requirements obliging website operators to report on the every move of their users, while another addresses penalties for terror-related crimes.
The third would set new restrictions for individuals and organizations accepting anonymous donations through online services like PayPal, a measure that could have an especially strong impact on small civil society groups.
The three proposed laws
The first of the three bills (Legislative initiative 428884-6 ) creates new requirements for mandatory archives and notifications, granting the federal government wide jurisdiction.
The most concerning article of the bill stipulates that “individuals or legal entities” who “ the dissemination of information and (or) the exchange of information between Internet users are obligated to store all information about the arrival, transmission, delivery, and processing of voice data, written text, images, sounds, or other kinds of action” that occur when using their website.
At all times, data archives must include the most recent six months of activity.
It appears that this obligation would apply to the owners and operators of websites and services ranging from multinational services like Facebook to small community blogs and discussion platforms.
Website “organizers” must also “inform” (уведомить) Russian security services when users first begin using their sites, and whenever users “exchange information.”
Taken literally, this requirement could create a nearly impossible task for administrators of blogs, social media sites, and other discussion platforms with large quantities of users.
The legislation also includes an ambitious note about jurisdiction, claiming applicability to all websites that Russian citizens access: “In the event that the communication service organizer is located beyond the borders of the Russian Federation, but the user of the services is located within Russian territory, the location of services rendered is the territory of the Russian Federation.”
Jurisdictional inconsistencies and international human rights norms would make such a policy nearly impossible to implement.
Finally, the legislation proposes fines for website owners who do not comply with the law, threatening legal entities (e.g., Facebook, Vkontakte, Twitter) with penalties as high as six thousand dollars per offense.
It is also difficult to imagine how such a scheme could be implemented across international borders.
The second bill (Legislative initiative 428889-6 ) would broaden police powers and raise penalties for terrorism.
This legislation grants the Federal Security Service (post-Soviet Russia’s successor to the KGB) rights to inspect travelers that currently only regular police enjoy.
It also increases the maximum prison sentences for several terrorism-related crimes.
Finally, the third piece of legislation (Legislative initiative 428896-6 ) would place new limits on online money transfers.
This draft law would raise limits on anonymous online financial transactions and ban all international online financial transactions, where the electronic money operator (e.g., PayPal, Yandex.Dengi, WebMoney) does not know the client’s legal identity.
The legislation also raises operating costs for NGOs, requiring them to report on every three thousand dollars spent in foreign donations.
(Currently, NGOs must report on every six thousand such dollars.)
The proposed restrictions on anonymous online money transfers could be significant.
Currently in Russia, one can deposit up to 1,200 dollars into a single anonymous online wallet, and one can pay out almost 450 dollars from that account in a single transaction.
Under the new legislation, Russians wouldn’t be able to spend more than 450 dollars in a whole calendar month from any one anonymous online money account, and single-day transactions would be limited to just under 30 dollars (1000 rubles).
Freezing civil society’s electronic wallet?
How much money do Russian netizens typically send when they transfer rubles online?
Consider Alexey Navalny’s August 2013 Moscow mayoral campaign, which he funded largely with online donations through Yandex.Dengi (a service similar to PayPal).
Navalny’s public audit of his online donations is still accessible, and it’s clear from just a glance that a sizeable number of the transfers were well above 1000 rubles.
Perhaps anticipating today’s backlash to the new crackdown on anonymous RuNet money transfers, the Duma actually raised the allowed maximum balance for identified (non-anonymous) online money accounts in late December 2013, increasing it from 100 thousand rubles (3 thousand dollars) to 600 thousand rubles (almost 18 thousand dollars).
Indeed, the legislation’s potential impact on crowd-funded projects (like Navalny’s mayoral campaign, his anti-corruption organizations, and others’ grassroots efforts) has alarmed many in the Russian blogosphere.
Writer and activist Arkady Babchenko, who runs a civic group called “Journalists without Intermediaries,” published an emotional blog post on Echo of Moscow, declaring that the new legislation would destroy any efforts to fund his project, which he promotes unceasingly in his online social media (always directing his readers to the group’s Yandex.Dengi account).
“Now I can close down the project with a clear conscience,” he announced fatalistically.
RuNet guru Anton Nosik blogged in a similar tone on LiveJournal, claiming that Russians who order pizzas online costing over 1000 rubles run the risk of being labeled “terrorists.”
With even greater hyperbole, economist and city council member Konstantin Yankauskas proclaimed in a Facebook post , “Under the pretext of fighting terrorism, the Federal Duma is preparing to shut down Yandex.Dengi.”
Like Babchenko, Yankauskas manages his own crowd-funded civic group—a local newspaper in the Moscow suburb of Zyuzino.
Curiously, Babchenko, Nosik, and Yankauskas all downplay the fact that the proposed limitations on Internet money transfers apply exclusively to anonymous accounts.
Presumably, their panic is rooted in the assumption that Russians will donate to civic initiatives only if they can do so anonymously, without alerting the authorities to any ostensibly “oppositionist” leanings.
These intended reforms may have been designed to force Russian civic society’s supporters into the open, thereby thinning their numbers.
Even now, while the legislation is not yet law, civic groups like Babchenko’s and Yankauskas’ are far from wildly successful.
“Journalists without Intermediaries” has just 110 “likes” on Facebook, and “I Live in Zyuzino” has fewer than 300 followers on Vkontakte.
As the proprietor of the former rushes to announce a closure of operations and the head of the latter concludes immediately that “Yandex.Dengi will be shut down,” it seems that some struggling online initiatives might use the latest RuNet crackdown to save themselves from the ordinary disgrace of unpopularity.
According to Vedomosti newspaper , work on the bills has been underway for some time, but a recent string of terrorist attacks in the city of Volgograd accelerated the process.
Four of the laws’ sponsors are former professionals in Russia’s security apparatus (including one former prosecutor, two former FSB agents, and a former deputy chairman of the federal “Information Policy Committee”).
The legislation was drafted in closed meetings with representatives of Rosfinmonitoring (an anti-money-laundering agency), the Federal Security Service, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
Whatever the ulterior motives of Russian lawmakers and the fundraising strategies of civic groups, this move to peel back the privacy offered by online exchange will have an inevitable chilling effect on the country’s netizen self-organization.
One of the bills’ authors, Oleg Denisenko, even admitted to Kommersant newspaper that the legislation “will be unpopular.”
As the Duma discusses and revises the bills over the coming weeks, Denisenko will learn whether his colleagues agree that the fight against terrorism warrants such sacrifices.
The initial reactions from the RuNet, however, indicate that the proposed measures will never be popular with the country’s bloggers.
Ukrainian Protesters Play Lennon's "Imagine" Live to Riot Police · Global Voices
On December 18, 2013, American musician and composer Sean Lennon (son of John Lennon and Yoko Ono) shared a photo on his Facebook wall, depicting a pianist playing John Lennon's famous song "Imagine" to the rows of Ukrainian riot police.
In a week, the photo has gathered over 16,900 likes and has been shared over 6,100 times.
A screenshot of Sean Lennon's Facebook Mobile uploads picture.
The photo depicts a man playing "Imagine" in front of riot police in Kyiv, Ukraine.
The artistic action that took place in Kyiv, Ukraine, during ongoing EuroMaidan rallies.
It was conceptualised and implemented by non-partisan activists of the group called Euromaidan's Civic Sector .
"Real Patriots Choose Patriotic Names" in Tajikistan · Global Voices
In the Central Asian nation of Tajikistan, a person's name is no longer a private matter.
The country's authorities insist that a name is also an indication of the degree of patriotism of its bearer.
Slavic-style surnames
When the Soviet union disintegrated in 1991, the majority of people in Tajikistan had Slavic-style surnames ending in "ov" and "ev" (or "ova" and "eva") and patronymics ending in "ovich" and "evich" (or "ovna" and "evna").
In 2007, however, in an attempt to emphasize a break with the Russian cultural dominance, Tajikistan's president Emomali Sharipovich Rahmonov dropped the patronymic and the "ov" from the end of his surname, becoming Emomali Rahmon.
He also urged the country's parents to register their children with "proper" Tajik names.
Many officials followed Rahmon's suit, dropping patronymics and Slavic endings from their last names.
Many Tajiks who dropped Slavic-style endings from their surnames in passports have now gone back to those surnames.
Wikimedia Commons image.
Many ordinary Tajiks, however, have been reluctant to part with the Slavic-style surnames. Some people did not see the need to change their names.
Others felt that changing a name required too much bureaucratic hassle and under-the-table payments.
Besides, many of those who dropped their surname endings soon regretted doing so.
One to 1.5 million Tajiks work in Russia, sending home money that is essential for keeping at least half of the country's population out of poverty.
As competition for vital jobs in Russia increased and harassment from police and immigration officials became a norm, Tajik workers did not fail to notice that those of them who kept the Slavic "ov" endings were treated better than those who changed their names.
This prompted many Tajiks to go back to their Slavic-sounding names.
"Unpatriotic" surnames
It appears that the Tajiks' unwillingness to embrace the "authentic" national surnames continues to worry the authorities.
In a recent report, Tajikistan's Prosecutor General Sherkhon Salimzoda claimed that people's reluctance to drop Slavic endings in their surnames demonstrated "low levels of national consciousness and patriotism".
Salimzoda's report, published in the official government newspaper Jumhuriyat on January 18, notes that during the past three years, more than 500 students in three Dushanbe-based universities went back to Slavic-style surnames, while only two students chose to drop Slavic-sounding names.
It is worth noting that Salimzoda himself was known as Salimov before be changed his surname in 2007.
The official's statement caused a stir among the country's social media users.
Most netizens felt that Salimzoda went too far by suggesting that a surname cleansed of an "alien" ending is a sign of patriotism.
Blogger Rishdor wrote :
Will someone please clarify for him what a prosecutor's job is and what he should not get involved in?
What are these officials trying to mess with anyway?
It is up to parents and families to decide how they name children.
Nobody asks the state for advice on this.
They regulate everything anyway.
Would they perhaps issue a decree listing all patriotic names that parents must choose from?
This will never happen.
It is our right to choose names for ourselves and our children.
Changing your name from Salimov to Salimzoda does not make you a patriot.
What makes you think that someone named Salimov or even Ivanov cannot be a truer patriot than someone named Salimzoda?
A surname does not really indicate anything.
You can change your surname to Khayam or Rudaki or Somoni but this will not change you as a human being.
Shit remains shit even without an "ov" ending.
Many Internet users were surprised by the fact that the statement came from an official whose responsibilities have little to do with naming.
In the comments section on ozodi.org, Rustam asked :
What does the prosecutor general have to do with naming???
This matter is totally unrelated to his scope of work, isn't it?
Besides, every individual can choose whatever name he or she likes.
Why should we interfere with an individual's private matter?..
Meanwhile, many netizens appeared to sympathize with the official's dislike of "alien"-sounding surnames.
Responding to Rishdor, Kholiknazar opined :
Your are right, it is not a prosecutor's job .
However, I understand him.
He is worried about our nation.
We are not Ivans and, god willing, we will never become Ivans.
We have ancient and beautiful names of our own, and we should use these names rather than the Russian ones.
The same applies to surnames.
A self-respecting Tajik who is proud of our thousand-years-long history will not carry a surname that has a Russian smell.
Naimjon added :
Real patriots choose patriotic names.
And on ozodi.org, D. Dovudi suggested :
They should write a naming law which would be mandatory for all newborns.
They should design naming standards based on Tajik names and prohibit the endings "ov" and "vich", This is the only way to put in place a system of Tajik naming.
The discussion about "proper" naming practices continues on two popular news websites, news.tj and ozodi.org (here and here) .
It reflects larger debates within the country about what an "authentic" Tajik national culture should look like and what it means to be Tajik in general.
Some Tajiks believe that the country should make a clear break with the Soviet past and its Russian-influenced culture, including by returning to a Persian alphabet and cleansing the Tajik language of all "impurities" adopted during the Soviet period.
Others suggest that the country should keep the elements of Soviet or Russian culture that characterize the modern Tajik nation.
There are also many other nuanced opinions about what a new Tajikistan should look like.
These opinions often surface in social media discussions about holidays (both old and new), monuments, history, and national symbols.
Lonely Chinese Men Are Looking to Vietnam for Love · Global Voices
Unlucky in love on the mainland?
Why not go to Vietnam, where Chinese bachelors can find "true love", or more specifically, where they can "search for brides who won't demand apartments or private vehicles as a precondition for marriage."
This, according to an advertisement from a famous Chinese group-buying website 55 Tuan offering a free trip to Vietnam for a number of lonely hearts in celebration of China's Bachelor's Day on November 11.
Faced with the increasingly high cost of marrying Chinese women, whose families often demand expensive gifts in exchange for their daughter's hand, and the country's imbalanced ratio of men to women, more and more bachelors in China are looking abroad for love.
All together, 28,629 hopefuls participated in 55 Tuan's give away.
Advertisement from website 55 Tuan offering a free trip to Vietnam for a number of single men in celebration of China's Bachelor's Day on November 11.
China's competitive and expensive marriage marketplace
In the past few years, more and more men have expressed their frustration on the Chinese web with the high cost of marriage in China.
It is customary that the Chinese bride’s family will make a list of very specific demands for the future groom as a pre-condition of the marriage.
The ownership of an apartment and a car as well as a steady job with a high salary are the top priorities on the bride's parents' wish list.
But it is almost impossible for a bachelor of average income to buy an apartment all by himself.
In contrast, it only cost tens of thousands of yuan (approximately a few thousands US dollars) to marry a Vietnamese girl, which is affordable for most Chinese bachelors.
Plus, a popular notion says that Vietnamese girls are hardworking, simple and devoted to the family.
China's imbalanced sex ratio also contributes to the shortage of brides on the Chinese marriage marketplace.
According to an article on ifeng news, the current ratio of men to women in China is 119:100.
In some regions, that the ratio reaches 130:100.
The imbalance is rooted in feudal Chinese culture, which values boys more than girls.
Coupled with the one-child policy and modern technology that allows parents to know the gender of a baby early on in the pregnancy, the preference for boys has resulted in extremely lopsized gender ratios in newborns, particularly in some remote rural areas.
For example, the ratio among infants in Wuxue (武穴) Hubei province is as high as 198.3:100, according to China's fifth population census .
In the case of Vietnam, it once was the opposite — women outnumbered men.
But in recent years, the male population has slightly outnumbered the female, and that problem has been exacerbated as more and more Vietnamese girls choose to marry foreigners in order to seek a better life.
Since the end of last century, more than 294,000 Vietnamese girls from poor areas have married foreigners , among which Chinese and Korean are the most popular choices.
Nevertheless, the frequency of Vietnamese-Chinese cross-border marriage fraud has increased .
More and more Vietnamese brides flee their Chinese husbands soon after they arrive in China.
In some cases, the arranged marriage agents are involved in the scam.
In response to the situation, the Chinese police department has claimed that they will crack down on commercial Vietnamese bride arrangement services.
'Why not marry a foreign girl for cheaper?'
Against such a backdrop, 55 Tuan's advertisement stirred up a lot of discussion online.
The website defended that the lottery event was to provide a free group tour for lucky bachelors to Vietnam.
The marriages, if any, will be purely based on love.
While commercial cross-border arranged marriages and mail-order brides are considered by global civil society to be a form of human trafficking and thus immoral, a substantial number of Chinese netizens on popular microblogging website Sina Weibo are against the police crackdown on these "marriage services".
Writer Shang Jianguo believed the Chinese consumers' desire for "group buying" of Vietnamese brides only reflected the escalating problem of the imbalanced gender ratio and its impact on the marriage market:
The phenomena of "group buying of Vietnamese brides" indicates the social problem of leftover men.
According to the sixth population census, the gender ratio of unmarried post-80s generation is 136:100, 206:100 for post-70s.
11,959,000 males between 30 and 39 years old remained single, while only 5,820,000 females are single.
@Zhazi77 has reached marriage age and has started worrying about his future:
I am a master's student.
Born into a poor family, I don't know if I can earn more than 2,500 RMB (approximately 400 US dollars) per month upon graduation.
I would be thankful to the whole world if I could get married before I reach 35!
Jiu Hengxing, an IT business microblog account, wrote that marriage is a form of economy and thus it is rational to seek brides overseas:
It is very hard to find a bride on a blind date if you don’t have an apartment or car in a big city.
Even if the girl is willing to marry you, you still have to deal with her mother.
Since the cost of marriage has increased, why not marry a foreign girl for cheaper?
As the marriage economy is tied up with property development in China, "Big eye brother" mocked the police intention to crack down on "group buying" of Vietnamese bride as serving the interest of property developers:
Of course the police need to take action , because if all men marry Vietnamese women, what would we do with the real estate economy in mainland China?
But Yuan Yi, a journalist, did not think that such relationships will last long:
I learned about the whole process of marrying a Vietnamese girl after I watched a documentary on Vietnamese brides in Taiwan.
Lots of Vietnamese beauties marry a man in mainland China or Taiwan because of the wealth gap. But cross-border marriages can only last long if the couple can overcome their cultural differences.
PHOTOS: Humans of Comoros, Madagascar and the Mascarene Islands · Global Voices
"The Humans of _____" concept is a photo project featuring street portraits and interviews of regular people collected from all over of the world.
Originating with Brandon Stanton's popular Humans of New York, the idea has generated hundreds of spin-offs worldwide, from Latin America to South Asia to the Middle East and North Africa.
Though the African island of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean counts its own Humans project, the phenomenon hasn't taken off yet on the nearby Mascarene Islands to the west or on Comoros to the northwest.
We hope that the many talented photographs from the region will take up the challenge.
To get started, here are a few photographs from Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius and Réunion.
Humans of Comoros
The following photo was taken by David Stanley in Moroni, the capital city of Grande Comore (Ngazidja).
A young woman can be seen transporting a jar of water.
Access to clean water is still a struggle in many part of Comoros:
Children collecting water from public taps in Moroni, Grande Comores, Union of the Comoros.
Photo by David Stanley, CC License BY-2.0
Humans of Madagascar
Joey Ayoub, a Global Voices contributor who recently published a photo post on the Humans of the Middle East and North Africa, helped create the Facebook page for Humans of Madagascar.
He then passed on the project to Lalah Ariniana, also a Global Voices contributor living in Madagascar.
Here is the latest post on the Humans of Madagascar Facebook page:
"Tarika Mainty"a band created by kids playing drums and dancing in the streets of the Capital City by Lalah Ariniaina with her permission
In the accompanying blog post, Lalah goes into further detail about the life of these three children who started a band to earn a living :
I met three boys who are all about ten years old.
They created the band "Mainty" (Black in Malagasy).
Fabrice is on drums, Christian is using a self-made horn (like the one used at birthday parties) and Cedric provides the dancing.
They do small street performances by touring neighborhoods of downtown Antananarivo.
Humans of Mauritius
There isn't yet a Humans of Mauritius blog, so the Humans of Dubai page posted a few photos to initiate the project.
Here is a photo of a typical snack store in Port Louis:
Man in front of grocery store in Port Louis via Humans of Dubai with permission
Humans Of Reunion
A Humans of La Réunion page also hasn't been created yet, but a good starting place is the photos shared by Ile de La Réunion Tourisme (IRT) Facebook page.
They provide a wide variety of photographs illustrating the diversity of the island.
Here is a photo of artists from Saint Maxime, Reunion island:
Maxime Laope and their kids in Reunion with their permission
INFOGRAPHIC: The New Anti-Democratic Laws of Ukraine · Global Voices
On January 16, 2014, Ukrainian Parliament adopted a series of bills with a severe violation of the voting procedure.
Nevertheless, on the eve of the same day the bills were signed into law by President Yanukovych.
Below is an infographic by civic movement CHESNO outlining the major legislative initiatives valid as of January 17, 2014.
Ukrainian Civil Society Calls for International Investigation of Yanukovych' Financial Activities · Global Voices
As anti-government Euromaidan protests enter their forth week in Ukraine, representatives of Ukrainian civil society are calling on leaders of the European Union, the US and their law enforcement agencies and financial institutions to investigate alleged incidences of corruption and money laundering by Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych and his son, Oleksandr Yanukovych.
The data collected by activists has been presented in infographics published recently on http://www.yanukovich.info/.
Their open appeal on the website reads :
We believe that authoritarian regime of President Viktor Yanukovych has been fueled by proceeds of corruption laundered via the international financial system through the network of shell-companies and professional intermediaries.
We reckon as unacceptable the usage of the international financial system to support the Yanukovych regime, which violently disperses peaceful demonstrations, organizes bloody beating of armless people, and kangaroo courts, that throw them later in jail.
Bibles Seized in Malaysia for Using ‘Allah’ to Refer to God · Global Voices
More than 300 bibles were seized in the office of the Bible Society of Malaysia during a raid conducted by the Selangor Islamic Religious Department or Jais which wanted to enforce a law that prohibits non-Muslims from using the word Allah in their religious publications.
Allah is used to refer to God in the Bahasa translation of the bible.
The Non-Islamic Religious (Control of Propagation Among Muslims) Enactment 1988 listed 25 words and phrases which non-Muslims cannot use.
A few months ago, Malaysia’s Court of Appeals ruled that a Catholic paper cannot use the word ‘Allah’ to refer to God because it might create confusion among Muslims.
The issue sparked an intense debate in Malaysia which is a Muslim-majority country.
About 10 percent of the population are Christians who have been using the term Allah to refer to God in their religious publications and rituals for many years already.
Despite the court ruling, a Catholic priest declared that he will still use ‘Allah’ in the church service which enraged some Muslim groups.
The Klang Muslim Solidarity Secretariat, a coalition of Muslim NGOs, have been holding street protests to denounce the use of Allah by non-Muslims.
The Twitter photo below shows some progressive Muslims showing solidarity to Christians after Muslim groups vowed to hold bigger protests.
Muslims showing support to the Church for peace and harmony.
Well done the thru Malaysians Muslim moderates. pic.twitter.com/RzoG6SFoXW — JeraldJoseph (@jeraldjoseph2) January 5, 2014
Meanwhile, the National Unity Consultative Council has been working on a proposed 10-point solution to settle the issue peacefully.
One of the proposals is to put a ‘Christian publication’ label on bibles and a cross sign so as to not confuse Muslims.
June H.L. Wong thinks that an international panel can help Malaysia resolve this controversial matter:
...if we can’t resolve this internally by ourselves, perhaps we should seek an international panel of eminent ex­­perts to act as mediators to help us get out of this impasse rationally and equitably.
There is no shame in seeking outside help in times of crisis and if this isn’t a crisis, I don’t know what is.
Several Chinese youth organizations urged all parties to be tolerant and respectful:
In a pluralistic country like ours, all parties need to continue being tolerant and respectful of and appreciate each other.
We also call on both sides to actively contribute to talks to work towards finding a solution to this problem on the basis of fairness and harmony.
Melati Timur does not support the argument that the use of Allah by Christians would weaken the faith of Muslims:
Why is the Muslim faith deemed the more fragile, more in need of protection?
Aren’t we told all the time how superior this faith is, this faith of the majority and political elites?
If it is so superior, why is it that our confusion is considered so inevitable compared to people of other faiths?
Are you saying there is actually something wrong with our faith, something so close to the surface that the mere use of an Arabic word that means God by Christians will reveal all and thus turn us away from Islam in droves?
Lucia Lai also doesn’t believe that Muslims will be confused if Christians would use the term Allah:
no.
1: does muslim goes to sunday church to listen to their sermons? if no, how will they get confused? no.
2: even if muslim does hear sermons with 'allah' in it, why you think they can get confused? simple! it is because you don't trust your own muslim brethren – you think their faith is so weak that just listening to it, they will get confused or get converted
Marina Mahathir, the daughter of former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, expressed solidarity to Christians by visiting a church service:
At the Our Lady of Lourdes Church in Klang to show what 'Islam is a religion of peace' really means.. — Marina Mahathir (@netraKL) January 5, 2014
anas zubedy tries to probe deeper as to why some Muslims are not comfortable with Christians using the word Allah:
Their apprehension is in a sense understandable, given the attempts by some Christian missionaries during the colonial epoch to impose their religion upon Muslims and people of other faiths.
Even in the post-colonial period this has continued albeit in different forms and through different channels.
Thumbnail used is from @fzdotcom
#Lobbytweet, a Push for More Transparency in Germany's Politics · Global Voices
In many countries, growing numbers of users have made Twitter the second most important social network, just behind Facebook.
Yet Twitter’s popularity in Germany doesn't even come close to the levels it enjoys in countries like Brazil, the United States, Spain or Turkey. The Economic Miracle Bag.
In Germany, the number of Twitter users is similar to that of the considerably smaller Netherlands—despite having a population almost five times the size.
An Economist magazine blog has already raised the question "Why Do Germans Shun Twitter" and comes to the conclusion that the transparency of Twitter comes in conflict with the German need for privacy.
Now the transparency of Twitter could provide a way to shed more light on the darkness of lobbying in German politics.
In his blog Hamburger Wahlbeobachter , political advisor and blogger Martin Fuchs recently called on German politicians to publicize their meetings with lobbyists on Twitter using the hashtag #Lobbytweet.
Some politicians already post these meetings on their websites; Green Party MP Tabea Rößner posts a selection of bizarre lobbyist presents on her Facebook page .
The posting of lobby tweets would aggregate these types of meetings and give citizens, journalists, and NGOs a peek—if not a window—into the extent of lobbying in Germany.
The initiative proposed by Hamburger Wahlbeobachter originates with a tweet by Green Party MP Agnieszka Brugger, who routeinly returns gifts from lobbyists to their senders.
In October, Brugger sent back one particular gift from the Initiative Neue Soziale Marktwirtschaft (INSM), or New Social Market Economy Initiative in English, and tweeted:
#INSM, your gift is going back.
Reactions on Twitter have so far been very positive. Jona Hölderle tweeted, mentioning Fuchs (@wahl_beobachter):
Just tweet transparency: http://t.co/q4pjQMgP4R Nice #LobbyTweet suggestion from @wahl_beobachter!
Yannick Dillinger appears to be excited about the #Lobbytweet initiative:
MT @wahl_beobachter: "It kicked off with a photo from@agnieszka_mdb.Transparency in lobbying.-> http://t.co/Hnu5Ukaze7 #LobbyTweet”
Journalist Claus Hesseling (@the_claus) also found the idea worth recommending:
Great idea from @wahl_beobachter: Politicians should tweet about presents they get from companies #LobbyTweet http://t.co/KLYR8l84uH — Claus Hesseling (@the_claus) December 18, 2013
The #Lobbytweet initiative does not exonerate politics from its obligation to pass legislation for greater transparency.
The nonprofit organization LobbyControl and other organizations have long put pressure on politicians to create a mandatory lobby register and to pass a law to prevent bribery among parliamentarians.
Still, the #Lobbytweets could be a small step in the right direction.
IKEA's Toy Wolf Lufsig Becomes a Protest Icon in Hong Kong · Global Voices
The banner of the Facebook page for IKEA's toy wolf Lufsig.
A Hong Kong protester threw a stuffed toy wolf named Lufsig from furniture and home goods giant IKEA at the city's Chief Executive CY Leung during a speech on December 7 in a community consultation meeting, accusing the leader of lacking commitment to the city's democratic reform.
Lufsig wasn't chosen to be the protest prop at random.
CY Leung was nicknamed "the wolf" in early 2012 during the election of the chief executive.
Furthermore, the Cantonese pronunciation of the mainland Chinese translation of Lufsig into Lo Mo Sai (路姆西) resembles the offensive phrase "mom's c**t", and the word "throw" in Cantonese resembles the word "f**k", making the action of throwing Lufsig at the chief executive take on a whole new offensive and vulgar meaning.
While the indecency involved in the symbolic action makes it difficult for the mainstream media to deliver the message, the story has gone viral online in less than two days.
That same evening, a Facebook page for the stuffed toy wolf was created to celebrate the protest and collect spoof pictures.
A political cartoon by keyboard fighter via Lufsig's Facebook page.
The day after the protest, Lufsig had already become an Internet meme similar to the Grass Mud Horse, which is a symbolic defiance of widespread Internet censorship in China.
Fans of Lufsig scrambled to get a hold of the toy from IKEA and from online shopping platforms.
A rumor soon spread that IKEA had taken Lufsig off the shelves; a Facebook event page demanding IKEA "release" Lufsig was set up in response on December 9.
Ruby Lai was one of those hunting for Lufsig.
She rushed from Shatin IKEA to Kowloon IKEA on December 9 and was lucky to get her hands on four Lufsigs.
She described the craze at inmediahk.net, a citizen journalism platform:
I arrived at IKEA Kowloon bay branch at 3 p.m. and ran up 3-4 stories, didn't see a single Lufsig tail.
Eventually, I found the stuffed toy area only to see that Lufsig's shelves were empty!
Four whole shelves were empty!
I almost collapsed, as if my girlfriend suddenly told me that she would marry another person tomorrow.
I saw a few other young men approaching the cart with the same face of disappointment.
We exchanged looks and started talking:
Me: "Damn it, all sold out.
I rushed here from Shatin!"
Ah Nan: "Me from Sheung Shui!"
Ah Buk: "Me from Wong Ta Sin… But the sales person said they would replace the stock soon."
I couldn't wait and dashed to an IKEA salesperson, who were walking toward us.
Me: "Are you in charge of the toys?"
Male sales: "Yes, the stock will arrive at 4 p.m., you can wait near cart number 42."
A design based on a Japanese Cartoon Attack on Titan.
Image from Lufsig's Facebook page.
Three hundred Lufsig arrived, and Ruby and her new friends were lucky enough to each get hold of five Lufsigs.
She is generous to sell one of her Lufsigs to a man who had waited for 30 minutes in vain:
More than 100 people lined up, and a few dozen weren't able to buy the toy because many people in the queue bought more than five Lufsigs.
Many approached us and asked if we would sell our Lufsigs to them.
We replied that we would sell to those who had lined up for more than 30 minutes.
Eventually, I sold one of my Lufsig to a Mr. M who rushed from Shatin and lined up for more than 30 minutes, and Ah Nan also sold one to another person in the queue.
When we were about to leave IKEA, a boy who looked high school-aged dashed forward and asked if I could sell him one, he said: "I just rushed here from Tin Shui Wai!" .
Yuen Chan, a journalism lecturer, explained the nature of Lufsig mania in her blog from news website Huffington Post:
Lufsig mania has its critics — those who see a bunch of lemmings blindly following the latest fad or view the mass purchasing of the toy as symptomatic of a collective mental illness.
I see it more as a manifestation of a Chinese saying, "to find merriment in bitterness."
Even as I was relishing the dark humor of Lufsig, I was trying to figure out why I found him subversive.
It was only after talking with Ruby that I realized that Lufsig, or Lo Mo Sai, had bypassed the very profanity of the phrase its name resembles.
The name no longer seems like an aggressive, misogynist insult — it has become a symbol of solidarity and protest.
I can't wait to receive the toy, which has so quickly become an icon in our society.
According to the official explanation from IKEA Sweden, the word Lufsig originates from the Swedish word "lufsa", which is a verb meaning "lumber" or "shamble".
When turned into an adjective by adding the suffix -ig, it means clumsy, shabby and untidy.
The latest reply from IKEA to inmediahk.net expressed regret over the unfortunate Chinese translation of Lufsig in Cantonese, and corrected the translation to Lu Fuk Sai.
But judging from the reactions from inmediahk's news thread on Facebook, netizens are not happy about the new name.
In response to the craze, CY Leung posted a photo with Lufsig on the government's website on December 11 and said he had bought one for his daughter as a Christmas present.
Chief Executive CY Leung took a photo with Lufsig as a response to the Lufsig craze.
Unethical Practices In A Bangladeshi Private Hospital · Global Voices
Emma Clare Burton-Chowdhoury, an Englishwoman (married to a Bangladeshi) living in Dhaka, Bangladesh, blogs about her experience in giving birth to a daughter in a Bangladeshi private hospital:
The pediatric team at Apollo welcomed the premature delivery of our daughter with open arms as conveniently her special care boosted our hospital bill.
Remembering Congolese Leader Patrice Lumumba's Struggle Against Colonialism · Global Voices
Patrice Émery Lumumba was a Congolese independence leader and the first democratically elected prime minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
He was killed 53 years ago on January 17, 1961 under circumstances that still remain unclear.
Lumumba, an iconic figure of the struggle against colonialism in Africa, was removed from power because he opposed the Belgian-backed secession of the mineral-rich Katanga province.
His successor, Joseph-Desiré Mobutu, along with Mobutu's squad arrested Lumumba and executed him shortly after.
His death was the culmination of a period of political turmoil in the country known as the Congo Crisis.
Congolese citizens and observers the world over paid tribute to his uncompromising leadership on the anniversary of his death:
Patrice #Lumumba was assassinated 53 years ago today.
The country and region he died for is still being torn apart.
Cc @Survie @Billetsdafrique
They cut his body to pieces and then they dumped it into an acid tank.
53 years later, they still cannot deal with their act.
His last letter to wife Pauline before he died was widely shared online.
Community blog Quartier Libres republished the letter, in which Lumumba wrote:
What I can say is this: dead or alive, free or in jail, it is not about me personally.
It is about Congo, our unhappy people, whose independence is being trampled upon.
We are not alone.
Africa, Asia, the free peoples and the peoples fighting for their freedom in all corners of the world will always be side by side with the millions of Congolese who will not give up the struggle while there is even one colonialist or colonialist mercenary in our country.
To my sons, whom I am leaving and whom, perhaps, I shall not see again, I want to say that the future of Congo is splendid and that I expect from them, as from every Congolese, the fulfillment of the sacred task of restoring our independence and our sovereignty.
Without dignity there is no freedom, without justice there is no dignity and without independence there are no free men.
In the magazine CeaseFire, Georges Nzongola-Ntalaja, a professor of African and Afro-American studies at the University of North Carolina, and Jonathan Jacobs, a writer and activist based in London, explained the importance of Lumumba's legacy:
According to unconfirmed reports, Walter Kansteiner – US Secretary of State for African Affairs under George W. Bush, between June 2001 and November 2003 – designed a plan for the division of Congo into four countries.
The justification for such a Balkanisation would be that, in its present dimensions, the country is too large and ungovernable.
In fact, this would facilitate access to resources, and make their transfer to outside markets easier. the reality is that their project for the recolonisation of Congo will always stumble against the determination of the Congolese people to defend their unity, their national patrimony, and the territorial integrity of their homeland.
The legacy of Patrice Lumumba, Pierre Lulele, André Kisase Ngandu and so many other martyrs brings women, men and children to shout “No” to balkanisation and “Yes” to a “United Congo, a strong nation.”
Two Opposite Arguments on Whether CAR Crisis is a Religious Conflict · Global Voices
The violent conflict that rocks the Central African Republic (CAR) spurred a debate on whether the conflict turned into an inter-religious conflict and therefore might escalate into a genocide.
Juan Branco, a researcher at Yale law School and a blogger for Rue89, argues that there is no history of such conflict in CAR and therefore, the media is at fault for overhyping this notion :
There are no monsters in the camp of Kasai, a camp is supposedly a shelter for the bloodiest Central African militia.
No one here is spreading hate speech even when they are edged on to do so.
There are Christians who quote extensively from the Bible to convince their comrades to abandon their voodoo charms.
There are Muslims who are just trying to go through their praying rituals.
Florence Lozach is a war reporter that just finished an investigative report on the CAR conflict. She states that media certainly did not invent the growing tension between Christians and Muslims in CAR and that all indications points toward a very worrisome trend :
On December 5, evidently you were not here (in Bangui) Mr. Branco.
Most of the media that you despise so much today were here, in the streets, and then in the Ali Babolo mosque and then again, in the streets.
The words that were used have changed that day. With over 500 dead people in the streets, the words we heard turned into hate speech between people of Christian and Muslim faith.
How Online Platforms Are Working to Save Angola's Languages · Global Voices
"On average, a language disappears every two weeks, and Africa is the continent most at risk", wrote the author José Eduardo Agualusa in a 2011 article on the evolution of languages in Angola.
However, during the past year a number of online platforms have been created with the aim of protecting Angola's national languages.
Angola is a plurilingual country , with six African languages recognised as national languages as well as Portuguese as the official language.
Besides this, it is estimated that there are 37 languages and 50 dialects in use in the country.
At the end of October 2013, the blog Círculo Angolano Intelectual (Angolan Intellectual Circle) reported that 30 percent of the Angolan population (almost 8.5 million Angolans) "only speak national languages which are not featured in any educational or social program", adding that:
this is another of the factors that provoke social exclusion.
In an article by Agualusa, published by Casa das Áfricas, a Cultural Institute for Training and Study on African Societies in São Paulo, the prizewinning author considers a "proposal for peace" for the coexistence of the national languages with the Portuguese language ("mother tongue versus stepmother tongue") and poses the question:
Why is it that in Angola, a country of many languages, writers only use Portuguese?
In an attempt to counter the phenomenon, various online initiatives were created during 2013 by young people who view the new technologies as a tool for the promotion and protection of national languages.
Five ways to ask questions in Kimbundo, courtesy the Evalina Facebook page.
One project, still in its initial phase, which aims to promote learning of the Angolan national languages in an innovative way, free of charge and accessible to everyone with access to the Internet, is Evalina.
Created in May 2013 by Joel Epalanga, an IT project manager in the telecommunications sector, the primary motive for the creation of the platform was the observation that there is a gap faced by many young people with regard to the national languages.
The proposal was explained in an interview in the magazine Jovens da Banda:
young people, who these days spend a large part of their free time on the Internet, could dedicate a few hours to learning a little of (their) preferred national language.
Evalina consists of a Facebook page where content such as incentives to learn and lessons on national languages are shared.
At the date of publication of this article, the page featured lessons on Umbundu , the second most-spoken language after Portuguese, and on Kimbundo .
In February 2013, a platform for Angolan slang, Kallun , already warranted a note on Global Voices.
The project aims to "create a space where slang and colloquial language is explained so that everyone can understand it", and uses social networks to promote sharing and learning in an informal manner.
Another project which stands out is the Ngola Yetu Dictionary, a dictionary and online translator for Angolan national languages "developed with the goal of reinforcing Angolan culture and increasing its use among young people".
With a simple and intuitive design not unlike Google, it works as a search engine between the Kikongo, Kimbundo, Umbundo and Portuguese languages.
The project has used Facebook and Twitter to interact with web users.
For the preservation of mother tongues
The importance of the inclusion of national languages in teaching is recognised by institutions and academics alike.
In the middle of June 2013, the Angolan portal Mwelo Weto published an interview with Daniel Peres Sasuku, an Angolan linguist and lecturer in the Faculty of Arts of the Agostinho Neto University, who advocates for the prioritisation of national languages in teaching:
We think, equally, that the inclusion of these languages in teaching is a more concrete means of rescuing and preserving them as part of the cultural heritage of the Angolan people.
The Regional Forum for University Development (FORDU) also supports the idea that national languages should be a compulsory discipline in schools.
Of the recommendations which were made following a debate organised by FORDU last April, 2013, under the theme "the national languages as true identity heritage of the Angolan people", the following stands out:
Angola continues to be a plural society from the point of view of its languages, traditions and culture (cultural diversity).
This situation makes Angola a country rich in culture, but serious policies are necessary to promote all languages and give a greater importance to the national languages, above all the most widely spoken such as Umbundo.
Between 2004 and 2010, a trial was carried out to introduce seven national languages in a series of schools in the country.
The Ministry of Education declared in September 2013 that it plans to expand the teaching of national languages into all primary schools.
A bill on the Statute of National Languages in Angola "to promote social inclusion and strengthen unity in ethnolinguistic diversity" is in its concluding phase.
Meanwhile, artists - in this case singers - have also recommended the use of national languages in their songs.
Do you know of any other online initiatives for the preservation or teaching of Angola's various languages?
30 People in Greece Have a New Job, Thanks to a Twitter Hashtag · Global Voices
Graffiti in Greek reads, "I don't hope for anything, I am not afraid of anything, I am unemployed," a rephrasing of a famous quote by a Greek author.
Photo by SpirosK photography via Flickr.
CC BY-NC-ND 2.0
At a time when unemployment has reached a staggering 27 percent in Greece, a hashtag on Twitter has helped about 30 people in the country find work.
#aggeliesergasias (jobadverts) was created by user @dimitrischrid in the beginning of October to help social media users share information about job opportunities in Greece and abroad.
On December 11, the hashtag was a trending topic on Greek Twitter for 11 hours, thanks to its use by Twitter users and well-trafficked employment portals.
Within a few days, the hell broke out: Twitter users started to post job offers they knew or heard about, while job seekers started to post their request.
ReTweets and Favorites added quickly to the success of this modern, social media way to get to see a job offered in Athens or Xanthi, in London or Preveza, in Cete or in Geneva.
Creator @dimitrischrid explained to news website Protagon the effect that the hashtag has had so far:
Up until now, and it is very early yet and many don't know about this way of searching for a job, around 30 people have sent me messages telling me that they have been hired and wanted to thank me for this.
Each one of us can make a hashtag, there is no way to get paid for its success, but the ethical reward I receive every day is worth all the money in the world.
The effort has also expanded to Facebook.
Ukraine: Translators Organize on Facebook to Provide Live #Euromaidan Updates · Global Voices
Volunteer translators following the Euromaidan protests in Ukraine have organized on Facebook, setting up pages like Maidan Needs Translators and Euromaidan Translators where urgent news from the protests that require translation to reach a wider international audience are shared and Euro-Maidan As It Is, where translated content is published.
The translators also provide content for counterpart English-language pages Euromaidan in English, Euromaidan Updates in English and Euromaidan News and Analysis .
The process is very decentralized with volunteers not only carrying out translations but also suggesting fresh content.
Description on Maidan Needs Translators page reads:
Looking for those who are willing to translate for us and native speakers to proof-read.
All help will be appreciated!
The pages that coordinate translations gathered hundreds of likes in just the first two days.
Throughout the mass Euromaidan rally of December 8, Facebook volunteers played an important role, offering real-time translations of important news and developments.
Ukraine: Understanding the #Euromaidan Protests · Global Voices
It may seem to many that the #Euromaidan protests in Ukraine grew out of nowhere and overnight, but this is not the case.
There is a long history behind the protests and the government's decision to back out of what was supposed to be a historical and significant move toward EU integration was only the last straw for the citizens of Ukraine.
A blogger based in Lviv, Ukraine, wrote a comprehensive explanation of the several elements involved in inciting the protests that started in Kyiv on November 21, 2013 and are now in their second week.
In the post titled "Who is behind the Ukrainian protest?
A letter from Lviv", he summarizes:
So, what you should know .
Ukrainian market in depended of Russia and Russia wants to absorb such depended markets.
So, to save sovereignty of Ukraine (at least more or less) we need to diversify this dependence.
And this automatically means more collaboration with EU.
2.
The protests are so massive because of real support and euphoria (people didn’t know they still can protest).
But that time the opposition wants to use the protests to achieve its own profit.
Not all Ukrainians support EU-integration.
Those who don’t support don’t know any truth about situation in Greece or in Spain; they just like Russia or they are afraid of homosexuals (Russian propaganda like to intimidate that EU means legal homosexual marriage etc).
But frankly speaking those who support EU mostly don’t know much more (I mean about Greece etc).
This data: 44% for European Union; 33% for Custom Union.
5.
The main interest of both Yanukovych and opposition leaders is victory on 2015 presidential elections.
Brazil's 'Silent Revolution' in Education, Inspired by Portugal · Global Voices
Show in celebration of Circus Day
Eighteen years ago a true revolution in the Brazilian educational system was started when Project Âncora launched in the town of Cotia, São Paulo.
It took the form of a space for learning, practising and enhancing principles of citizenship with the aim of developing and transforming the reality of the local community.
Since 1995 this non-profit project has catered to over 6,000 children, teenagers and their families through extracurricular activities such as music classes, theatre-circus, crafts and professional courses.
In 2012 an old dream was accomplished with the opening of the Project Âncora School of Infant and Primary Education (pdf).
Following the methods of Escola da Ponte from Portugal, which challenges the traditional concept of education and the world’s prevalent standard model of schooling, the Project Âncora School follows an “educational philosophy which proposes that self-knowledge and experience are the key tools for learning, centred around the learner, his or her particularities and his or her transition from heteronomy to autonomy”.
Around 300 children and teenagers attend the school, which is structured round three parallel curricula: the individual, the social and the communal.
This innovative model was inspired on democratic education and has been implemented in Brazil with the help of Portuguese language teacher José Pacheco, who has been known worldwide for having created the Escola da Ponte (School of the Bridge) in Portugal by making use of a revolutionary methodology (pdf).
Marusia Meneguin, author of the blog Mãe Perfeita, has been enthralled by the original proposal:
Imagine a school without classrooms, schedules or exams.
A curriculum which is decided upon by the children, through consensus, and which includes subjects such as circus and meditation.
There is neither roll call nor punching the clock, and yet no absences on the part of pupils or teachers.
Everything is free of charge.
Now, imagine that these students come from violent environments and have been expelled from several schools.
It may seem like utopia.
Until the day when you get to know the proposal for the Escola da Ponte.
In an interview with G1, Pacheco states that education in Brazil, whose model ignores the contribution given by Paulo Freire and other great educators from the country, squanders resources and produces 30 million illiterate people.
The results achieved by means of the alternative model, on the other hand, become visible within the community itself:
The former pupils from the School of the Bridge - some who are now over 50 years old - are living proof of the good quality of the project.
They are fulfilled human beings who display a high level of civic awareness, are ethical, entrepreneurial, supportive of others.
I should add that the Bridge welcomes pupils who are discarded by other schools, and recovers them.
Pupils who do not learn in another school or pupils who put teachers in a state of shock in other schools, they come to the Bridge.
Fundraising campaign for Project Âncora
Whereas School of the Bridge has been in existence for nearly 40 years, the results of Project Âncora School in Brazil, which is just over a year old, will take a bit longer to become obvious.
Nevertheless, the project has already attracted attention and has inspired other schools, receiving visits from educators from different parts of the country.
After one of these visits, Talita Morais described the differences she finds in this utopic educational model:
The big difference of Project Âncora, as well as of the School of the Bridge in Portugal, is that the children are made conscious of the collective perspective, of respect and love for others, and of the value of autonomy in the pursuit of his or her studies.
This way, going through the different levels - since there is no division by classes or grades in the school - the pupils gradually become more autonomous in their learning process, choosing what, how and at which moment they learn a certain subject, all done with the aid and orientation of teachers and tutors, who are made up of the schools personnel as well as volunteers from the community itself.
Besides such autonomy surrounding the choice of study, they also take an active part in the decisions and management of the school by means of weekly assemblies which redefine the rules that guide the institution.
Teacher Fernanda Rodrigues compared the Âncora with other traditional schools:
There, we were welcomed by a very lively and talkative 11-year-old girl!
She told us that she had been studying there since she was born and it became clear how truly proud she was for being part of the day-to-day life of Âncora.
Her eyes shone and it became clear there was a deep feeling of belonging that the student holds in relation to everything that happens there.
It is worth saying as well that it is impossible not to become enchanted by the place, which is not only broad, but also inspires education in its greatness.
We could witness several episodes which are not very common to find in traditional schools, such as boys taking care of the place, bags hanging on the entrance of the school, notice board displaying the agenda for the assembly and many people talking without giving way to that sort of screaming which is so commonly found in school environments.
Communities of learning from Project Ancora in Cotia, São Paulo.
The next step of the project is to expand this experience beyond the walls of the institution and reach the whole town by integrating the pupils into “learning communities”.
Once a week, the pupils must visit communal places, such as public health clinics and churches, in order to study local issues and talk directly with the residents.
Following Pacheco's formula, called “MC² - change enhanced by contamination and context”, the pupils must grab hold of the reality of the place where they live and seek solutions for the issues that they confront:
Learning communities are communal praxis based on an educational model that generates sustainable development.
It is the expansion of the educational practices of Project Âncora beyond its walls, and which actively involves the community in the consolidation of a participative society.
When Project Ãncora turned 18 years old in October 2013, João Carlos, from the blog Soliarte, declared that a dream that has become reality "reached adulthood a long time ago":
A new Brazil is born.
Hail!
Thank you Pacheco for the silent revolution which is taking place in Brazilian education.
Not only the children benefit from this revolutionary model of education.
As she recalled the anniversary celebrations, volunteer educator Johana Barreneche-Corrales pondered the importance of the playful and the emotional ties between the teacher:
Lastly, we may think that for a project to be successful, there is the need for a team to be put together, and that the team be truly a team, not by the number of people who join it, but by the strength of the ties between its members.
Project Âncora was one of the alternative education schools in Brazil that were visited by the documentary team Quando Sinto Que já Sei, a film made financially possible by means of crowdfunding through the website Catarse and which shall be launched in the beginning of 2014.
The objective is to start a discussion about the present state of education in Brazil by exploring new ways of learning based on children's participation and autonomy, values which are emerging and being put into practice throughout the country. "Everything is solved with two simple propositions: replace "to" with "with". With "to" there is a transference, with "with" there is a search for understanding."
José Pacheco on the banner of the film Quando Sinto que Já Sei (When I feel I already know) on Catarse website.
Human Rights Violations During Ukraine's #Euromaidan Protests · Global Voices
One of many newly set up blogs following Euromaidan protests in Ukraine, which have entered their second month, has collected several graphic images of injured, bleeding protesters from the past several weeks of protests and speaks of the disturbing violations of basic human rights, such as beatings of citizens and journalists in Ukraine during the peaceful rallies.
This blog post in particular calls attention to statements from several human rights watchdogs and the fact that, other than several violent police crackdowns on protesters, some participants of the protests are still being held in custody by police:
In December alone, according to Kharkiv Human Rights Group director Yevhen Zakharov, more than 50 journalists were assaulted – mainly by police – including 40 on Dec. 1 alone, when a large rally erupted in central Kyiv in response to a violent police crackdown on Independence Square the day before.
Despite an amnesty law in force concerning EuroMaidan protesters, four activists remain in custody for taking part in rallies, according to Kharkiv Human Rights group member Halya Coynash. She identifed the four as Yaroslav Prytulenko, Andriy Dzyndzya, Viktor Smaliy and Volodymyr Kadura.
The Cost of Living in Rio de Janeiro Is Too Damn High · Global Voices
Rio de Janeiro residents have begun to fight the increasingly high prices of hotels, rent, food, clothing and entertainment which have made the 2016 Olympic City and host of the 2014 World Cup a difficult place to live.
With the typical local sense of humour, comments on social networks have given others a glimpse of the borderline ridiculously high cost of living in the city.
The term "surreal" has increasingly been used to refer to current events in Rio de Janeiro.
Incidentally, this was the name given to an exclusive currency created in jest for the city by web designer Toinho Castro to substitute the Brazilian currency the real.
The proposal for the Surreal was the subject of comment in a note published in a widely read newspaper, O Globo:
"It's more appropriate to our day-to-day lives", he says, quoting a dialogue we'd like to hear: "How much is the water, young man?"
And the reply: "Five surreals..."
"The Surreals: the face of the new currency they've been talking about..."
Artwork by Patrícia Kalil shared on Facebook.
The Facebook page "Rio $urreal - NÃO PAGUE" (Rio $urreal - DON'T PAY) "publicises and boycotts extortionate prices" charged around the city.
Created on 17 January 2014, the page attracted more than 95,000 followers in three days.
We're not arguing here that "everything has to be cheap".
No, it's not that.
Those who wish to eat oysters, drink bubbly, dine in a restaurant whose chef studied at Cordon Bleu... Well, they have to bear the expense of doing so.
And, from time to time, everyone has the right to drink bubbly, eat a delicacy, dab their mouths with a cloth serviette - if they can pay for this occasional luxury.
Eating well brings happiness and comfort, it's an invitation to socialise.
Good ingredients are expensive.
Well-trained employees are too.
Nobody here thinks it absurd to pay more for something which actually costs more.
That's fair.
And you deserve to escape from the old beans with rice of every day from time to time. Don't you?
What's really tough is paying 30 reals for some chips .
Or 11 reals for a juice .
Or 8, 9 or 10 reals for a little bottle of mineral water .
Or 15 reals for a seat and shade on the beach .
These are just some of the absurd prices.
A "case of hyper-surrealism" was reported on the page by follower Clarissa Biasotto:
Today I went to Leblon Beach and I came across a South American tourist asking a street seller if this was Leblon Beach.
The seller replied that it was Copacabana, he carried on deceiving the tourist saying that he didn't know and in the end he said that here in Rio nothing is free, and for that reason, the information also had to be paid for.
The tourist was already getting his wallet out and asking how much the seller wanted when I had to shout at the tourist that yes, it was Leblon Beach. The tourist even asked if it was a joke. I found it shameful, surreal.
Menu from a food stand at Ipanema beach shared on the Facebook page of "Marketing na Cozinha"
But the most common denunciations come in the form of photos of menus with exorbitant prices, like chicken stroganoff for 72 reals (or 30 US dollars), a toasted sandwich for 20 reals and a green salad for 43 reals (8.50 and 18.20 US dollars respectively; see photo to the right).
The administrators of "Rio $urreal" state that the page was created primarily with the "aim to encourage consumers to reflect on their purchases":
It's up to us to decide when we want to pay the price of a particular item - whether it is an item of clothing, meal or service.
Is it expensive?
Don't buy it.
The menu's a non-starter?
Change restaurant.
You still don't know what you want?
Call your friends and ask if you can eat at their house.
You went to the beach and the seat rental was extortionate?
Did you ever consider that buying your own might be a good investment?
Conscious consumption - that's our goal.
Other initiatives have also become popular.
The page "Se Vira no Rio" has more than 14,000 followers and publicises venues that offer food and entertainment at accessible prices.
The rise of the property bubble
In one of its posts, the page encourages users to share solutions that would allow the inflation of property prices to be reversed or stopped.
In the almost 300 comments on this post, various cases are reported and some solutions proposed, many involving some kind of "anti-speculation laws" or state intervention; others called for a change in consumer behaviour, such as the search for alternative areas in the city or the abandonment of real estate agencies.
Many also believe that the real estate bubble is about to burst.
Vinicius Bito Trindade, an employee of the Bank of Brazil, commented:
Some say that what's pushing up property prices here is the excess of credit for financing.
It inflates the market and all that, as soon as the economic policy changes, the tendency is for it to fall and hit anyone who's tied into an unrealistic loan. Another initiative to raise awareness of the jump in the cost of living in Brazil is the site "Tem algo errado ou estamos ricos??"
("Is something wrong here or are we rich??"), which compares adverts for property for rent and for purchase in the country and abroad.
With this, it exposes high prices in Brazil for old and poor-quality properties, in comparison with similar or lower prices for charming properties in good neighbourhoods in countries in the developed or developing world.
The site shows, for example, an apartament of 600 m2 in Rio advertised for 66 million reals (or almost 30 million US dollars).
For several million less, it would be possible to buy the mansion where John Lennon wrote some of the songs for the album "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" or an entire building in the Upper West Side of New York.
In another case, quitinetes, or apartments in which the bedroom and living area are combined, go for more than one million reals (around 430,000 dollars).
With the site's posts, it is possible to observe that the explosion of property prices is not exclusive to Rio de Janeiro:
Little house in closed condominium in Valencia - Alicante (Torremendo) .
Brand new house, near the beach, near a golf club, in a closed condominium with all facilities (conservatory, etc., etc.).
(...)
New property, in a closed condominium with all facilities, near the beach, beautiful, etc. etc... how much?
Around 88,952 US dollars (around 200,000 or 210,000 reals, it depends on that crazy dollar going up and down).
But don't be sad, sweetie, you've got great options here in Brazil.
In the noble city of Lajeado in RS in the lovely district of Planalto, you can find a nice house for the same price!!
Incredible, isn't it???
Take a look...
It's a more authentic version (the road isn't paved, there isn't a swimming pool in the condominium, no golf club, beach, views, but it's a reflection of our proximity to the countries of the first world, isn't it??
Do it or what??
For the World Cup period, the federal government has announced measures to contain the prices of air travel and hotels, such as the intervention of consumer rights organization Procon, who filed complaints against four airline companies due to abusive price of plane tickets, and the control of the National Agency of Aviation, the ANAC.
A recent measure was the authorisation of 1,973 new flights to increase competition in the aviation sector during the months of June and July when the Cup will take place.
Opting for state intervention to contain prices is always a delicate decision in free market states.
For the aviation sector, which is regulated and considered strategic for national interests, this policy is already a reality in World Cup Brazil.
But the containment of prices of consumer goods is still a huge challenge for Brazilians and also for traditionally dynamic sectors.
At least on social networks, the mobilisation has begun.
Bosnian Protesters Demand Bread, Social Justice and Freedom of Speech · Global Voices
When the citizens of Bosnia’s second biggest city, Tuzla, went out to protest on February 4, 2014, few expected to witness the country-wide riots that the world is witnessing just a week later.
Whether the latest unrest in Bosnia-Herzegovina, can be qualified as the “Bosnian Spring”, as some media have named it, isn't what matters at the moment.
The reasons behind the unrest and where things are headed are the topics that many locals are asking the international community and media to focus on.
Bosnia’s “Grapes of Wrath”
Protesters have drafted a set of demands, narrowing down their struggle to one about social justice , the end of corruption, and freedom of expression.
People have also made it clear that the protests are not motivated by a quest for identity or inter-ethnic tensions.
Stefano Fait from Italy commented:
#Bosnia's protests?
They are about injustice, privatisations and a non-existent nation, not identity.
That's why Western media don't care — Stefano Fait (@stefanofait) February 12, 2014
Eric Gordy, a University College of London (UCL) professor who also writes for a group blog about Balkan politics and academics, described snapshots of the recent atmosphere in Bosnia that he observed during a visit there, giving insight into what is fueling the current anti-government protests:
Conversation 1 was with the waiter in a large Sarajevo hotel A colleague and I had heard that the employees of the hotel had not been paid for several months, so we asked.
It was true, he told us.
Most of the employees had remained at the hotel through a series of ownerships and bankruptcies, and had often faced periods of reduced pay, no pay, or something in lieu of pay.
So what were they working for?
They wanted to keep the hotel going in the hope that one day it might become profitable again, and they wanted the employer to keep making contributions to the pension and medical care funds.
Conversation 2 was with a group of postgraduate students in Tuzla.
Most of them had or were seeking work as schoolteachers.
And they were only able to get short-term jobs.
Why no permanent jobs in schools?
Because available workplaces are distributed among the local political parties, who fill them with their members and put them on one-year contracts.
The effect of this is that no young person can get a job except through the services of a political party, and no young person can keep a job except by repeatedly demonstrating loyalty to the political party.
You can probably imagine the wonderful effect this has on the development and teaching of independent, critical thinking in schools.
The government has been claiming that it has no funds to provide even for its citizens’ most basic needs.
Some Bosnians have responded with humor, circulating comments and images like the one below, widely on social networks:
The note reads: "Donations for the government”, using the word "sergija", which is a term for donations made to religious institutions and charities.
Image widely circulated on Twitter.
Media coverage
In national and regional mainstream media, the protesters are often labeled as hooligans.
A textbook example of media manipulation is the spin around protesters having weapons.
Serbian tabloid “Kurir”, considered a government mouthpiece in Serbia, published an article detailing a plot for the “violent unification” of the ethnically varied cantons of Bosnia-Herzegovina (BiH).
The article screams, through exclamation marks, images of violence and biased wording, that protesters are amassing a stockpile of weapons with which to lead the alleged “violent unification” of Republic of Srpska, the so-called Bosnian Serb Republic that is one of the two political entities in Bosnia-Herzegovina, with the other, the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Kurir’s piece generously quotes Mehmedalija Nuhić, called a “political analyst from Tuzla” in the article.
On social media, people wondered who this person is, some of them clearly dismissing his claims.
Tanja Sekulić, executive editor at Klix.ba, tweeted:
The peak of idiocy: Analyst Mehmedalija Nuhić claims that protesters have acquired weapons that they will allegedly use against the citizens of RS . #protest
Banja Luka-based Kontakt Radio published an investigative piece researching the alleged Nuhić, “presented as an analyst”.
“Every journalist around Tuzla is wondering who this analyst is,” writes Kontakt Radio team.
As Kontakt Radio's quick research revealed, Nuhić is in fact a municipal inspector serving in the city of Lukovac.
“And we kid you not,” comments the author, cheekily ending the piece with some more readily available information on Nuhić, which dismisses his credibility as a "political analyst" entirely.
People from the region are used to media manipulation and the above example of such machination is one among countless others.
In an op-ed , Paulina Janusz reflected on the unity political parties and media in Bosnia's show against protesters.
The media, for its part, was quick to report on any rumors of protesters' bad behavior, but protesters were quick to react to such reports.
Activist Emir Hodžić, who attended the Sarajevo protests on February 7, detailed to Radio Slobodna Evropa (Radio Free Europe) what he witnessed, declaring “we are neither vandals nor hooligans”.
Dario Brentin, among others, has compiled articles from the early days of the protests in a Facebook note.
Materials like this are regularly translated into English and updated on Bosnia-Herzegovina Protest Files.
A collectively curated compilation of links is also available through the CrowdVoice.org platform.
Now what?
Many politicians and media representatives have already begun to play the blame game quite actively.
Lord Paddy Ashdown, who served as High Representative and Europe’s Special Envoy to the country from May 2002 until January 2006, urged the European Union “to make Bosnia functional”.
In an interview with CNN’s Christiane Amanpour, Lord Ashdown warned:
At the moment its citizens are complaining about poverty and lack of movement and dysfunctionality of the state and corruptions among politicians” “could move to something far worse very quickly.
The international community has to act now.
If they don’t act now, I greatly fear that a situation where secessionism will take hold could easily become unstoppable as we approach elections.
Alarmism is also present on several sides.
Valentin Inzko, an Austrian citizen and the High Representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina, declared to Balkanist.net:
If the situation escalates, we will possibly have to think about EU troops.
But not right now.
Regardless of whose fault it is and who is supposed to "fix" the country, one question persists: Why are so many Eastern European and Balkan countries suddenly protesting?
Shortly after protests erupted in Tuzla and Sarajevo, Bulgarian independent research blog Banitza published a thoughtful post, “Waving ‘Democracy’ from Ukraine to the Balkans”:
Why now?
Why not 6 months ago; why not one year ago?
These are question that were directed at the protests in Bulgaria, which reached their largest numbers in the summer.
Clearly, the situation is so dire that either nothing or anything could trigger public outrage.
Of course violence cannot be the answer.
It’s destructive.
But desperation clearly takes precedence over dialogue in this case.
It’s simple – for the people protesting, the assumption of patience is nonexistent.
And it is understandable.
There is a level of tolerance that is, as has been shown over and over again in the 20th century, very flexible and malleable among human beings.
But it has its limits.
And within the Balkan countries this year, the sense of tolerance has been exhausted by the outright public arrogance of the Untouchables – call them mafia men, ex-communist, business elites.
It makes no difference.
Their capacity to flaunt their economic dominance is one thing, but their increasing ability to enforce their political and legal immunity is apparently too much.
It has been, for a long time, a fact that democracy is very dysfunctional.
Writing for Balkanist, Darko Brkan formulated four suggestions:
1) Declare Victory for the Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina
2) End all Police Investigations
3) Establish Provisional Governments in the Cantons
4) “Internal Lustration” Within Political Parties
"I Am Alive" App Allows Lebanese to Reassure Each Other After Explosions · Global Voices
The Lebanese seem to have gotten so used to bombs that an app dedicated to letting your loved ones know you're alive seems inevitable.
The app which goes by the name of "I Am Alive" is the brainchild of 26-year-old Sandra Hassan, a Lebanese student living in Paris.
Screenshot of "I am Alive" app
The way the app works is simple: every time an explosion happens, you just open the app and click.
This automatically sends out a tweet announcing "I am still alive! #Lebanon #LatestBombing".
Speaking with NPR blogger Rachel Martin, Hassan explained her motivation for creating the app:
"It was maybe a little bit frustrating that, we in Lebanon at least, that we're living in a situation that makes such an application necessary or useful.
My way to express that frustration was to publish this app ... kind of as a statement against what was happening, a statement of discontent if you will."
Responses to the app varied.
When famous Lebanese blogger Gino Raidy of GinosBlog asked people what readers thought of the app, most responses were negative:
@GinoRaidy sad and poorly done.
There are many other ways to resist and state you are alive — Uberstreet (@NourKhoury) January 25, 2014
@GinoRaidy dark humor much? — Lama Miri (@LamaMiri) January 25, 2014
@GinoRaidy i don't like it.
It's like they're telling us that we'll never be safe — Mona (@MonaaSalemm) January 25, 2014
IT blogger Erik Neu from Mondegreen II shared their feelings.
This must be the saddest app ever.http://t.co/S8J9QnKZc0 #Lebanon #LatestBombing — Erik Neu (@ErikNeu) February 3, 2014
However, PSFK blogger Ross Brooks has a more positive outlook on what the app represents:
"At times when mobile phone networks get flooded with calls from concerned relatives, the internet provides a better alternative to make sure your message gets through."
Blogger Unveils Sochi Corruption Website · Global Voices
The costs of the Sochi Olympics according to Alexey Navalny.
Russian opposition leader and anti-corruption activist Alexei Navalny joined the Sochi anti-corruption campaign this week, launching an interactive website outlining what he calls the "true costs" of the Olympic preparations in Sochi.
Navalny tweeted, linking to the website:
How much did the Olympics cost?
Who paid for it?
Who stole, and how much? http://t.co/FN8bZAwtdw pic.twitter.com/uCilgqiToG
With increased western scrutiny of the games, Navalny’s latest campaign was instantly covered in the New York Times, and other English-speaking media outlets shortly thereafter.
Pro-Kremlin blogger Stanislav Apetyan (twitter handle @politrash) took the speed as a sign of some sort of foul play, or a collaborative effort: An article in the New York Times goes up within 15 minutes after Navalny’s post: http://t.co/hBHYx9Pq6n It's like some kind of magic!
@politrash this is perfectly normal.
These types of things are distributed to the media in advance, as an exclusive story.
What is the problem here?
According to Apetyan , the problem is that this means the story was created for foreign consumption — implying that Navalny is chasing foreign attention.
Varlamov, though, claims that Navalny gave the story to pro-government Russian media as well, but they haven't published anything about it.
Another twitter user criticized Navalny on merits, saying:
@varlamov @politrash the main question here is how much was spent on Olympic venues and the hosting of the Olympic games, and how much on regional infrastructure projects.
Navalny alleges that has Putin lied about the cost of the Sochi Olympic projects, when he claimed that it had cost 214 billion rubles (or roughly 6.5 billion dollars).
Navalny claims that the actual figure is several times that, at $46 billion.
(A previous project launched by opposition politician Boris Nemtsov found the spending had reached $51 billion.)
The argument of the pro-government bloggers is that the 6.5 billion was indeed spent on the "Olympics proper" while the rest was spent creating infrastructure in Sochi — roads, utilities, and airports.
All things that will be useful in one of Russia's few resort regions.
Navalny's numbers are pieced together from various public sources, as he says , after much trial and tribulation.
But the project did not just focus on Olympic construction projects, but also on the people he says benefited the most from the embezzlement.
They include the Governor of Krasnodar Region (where Sochi is located) and his son-in-law; President Putin’s judo partner, billionaire Arkadiy Rotenberg; the oligarch Vladimir Potanin; and the CEO of state-owned Russian Railways, Vladimir Yakunin.
And that, to some, is the real scandal.
Online Mapping of Spreading Unrest After Killing of Protesters in Ukraine · Global Voices
This post is part of our Special Coverage Ukraine's #Euromaidan Protests.
On January 22, 2014, during a fourth consecutive day of violent clashes between Euromaidan protesters in Kyiv and police, two protesters were reported dead with the death toll rising to at least five in the past several days.
After this news, mass anti-government protests erupted in several regions of Ukraine and began to spread quickly through the country.
Peaceful protests that began on November 21, 2013, as a mass outcry against the decision of the Ukrainian government to cease talks about a historically significant agreement with the EU, have been dubbed by many international mainstream outlets as "pro-EU" or even "anti-Russian" while the participants of Euromaidan protests have been struggling for weeks now to explain to the world that their reasons for taking to the streets run far deeper than that.
A recent study by two independent scholars calls this one of the "four biggest misconceptions about Euromaidan".
Peaceful rallies have lasted for two months when the violent clashes with police broke out on the 19th of January, following the adoption of the set of repressive laws by the Parliament of Ukraine.
Duirng the protests, Internet users have set up social media pages, blogs and news aggregation to gather and confirm information about what is happening on the ground during the many rallies organized throughout the country every day.
Teams of translators have also banded together to bring up-to-date daily news about the protests, directly from the protesters to a wider international audience on Facebook and other networks.
Global Voices covered the importance of the Internet and the Euromaidan movement's use of it in an earlier post in December 2013:
Facebook and Twitter soon became the key platforms for coordinating protest activities and sharing information.
The now official EuroMaidan Facebook page set a new record in Ukraine , having accumulated 76,000 likes in just the first eight days of its existence.
The page is used to inform protesters about urgent news and issues, discuss plans of future actions, warn against using violence, share advice on how to deal with police forces, and much more.
It has currently reached over 141,000 likes and over 167,700 interactions.
An English-language page Euromaidan has also been set up, along with regional pages like Euromaidan Lviv .
Once the protests have spread through the country, the list of demands that included resignation of the national government and the President, in some regions has been expaned to include calls for banning the ruling Party of Regions and the Communist party, which has been supportive of President Yanukovych.
The process has begun in Western Ukraine, where the protesters took over regional state administration buildings, in some cases forcing local governor to resign and announcing the creation of an alternative government.
As of January 26, 2014, the new governments have already been set up in Lviv, Ternopil and Volyn regions.
In Rivne, the city policemen have resigned en masse thus refusing to take action against the protesters.
From the Western regions the unrest quickly spread to Central and Southern Ukraine.
With many conflicting reports coming from the regions, a Kyiv-based journalist Sergii Gorbachov has begun creating maps that show the latest developments and publishing them on his Facebook page.
He bases his conclusions on media reports as well as comments and updates from other social media users.
The maps demonstrate that in just four days, the protests have spread from five to twenty three regions , which undermines a popular misconception about the existence of "very strong" regional divide in Ukraine.
A map of political situation in Ukraine's regions as of 3:50 pm, January 26, 2013.
Created by Sergii Gorbachov As of January 26, the maps also reflect in which regions local authorities have recognized alternative governments created by the protesters.
This post was updated on January 27, 2014 at 1530 GMT to include more links and information about online mapping and usage of Internet tools during Euromaidan protests.
Five of the Most Celebrated French-Language African Films · Global Voices
The Panafrican Film and Television Festival of Ouagadougou (Festival panafricain du cinéma et de la télévision de Ouagadougou or FESPACO) is the largest film festival in Africa, held every two years in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.
The festival usually takes place in March of every year it is held.
Founded in 1969, it has honored a great number of movies whose impact is still felt today.
In celebration of the upcoming film festival, below are five of the most celebrated French-language African films (award-winning or not) that have left their mark on an entire generation of movie-watchers.
Ivory Coast: "Bal poussière" (Dancing in the Dust)
Poster for the film "Bal poussière" - Public domain
"Dancing in the Dust" is a 1988 Ivorian film directed by Henri Duparc.
Seen by over 300,000 people in France, this satire of polygamy tells the story of Alcaly (a.k.a.
"Demi-God") who, despite already having five wives, becomes infatuated with Binta, a young woman who has returned home from the big city of Abidjan.
See a French-language clip from the movie below:
Gapont , contributor on Allociné in Paris, explains what he found striking about the movie:
A fresh and spontaneous little gem.
This movie has the candour of a Renoir or Pagnol work.
Small budget, many amateur actors, shot in Super 16 mm, yet the magic is there, these incredible characters simply carrying us away.
Authentic filmmaking.
Ethiopia: "Va, Vis et Deviens" (Live and Become)
Poster for the film "Va, vis et deviens" - Public domain
"Live and Become" is a 2005 French-Israeli film by Radu Mihaileanu.
In an Ethiopian refugee camp in Sudan, a Christian mother makes her son Shlomo pass as Jewish in order to survive and be included in Operation Moses, which brought many Ethiopian Jews to Israel.
Declared an orphan, Shlomo is adopted by a Sephardic Jewish French family living in Tel Aviv.
He grows up fearing that his secret past will be revealed.
See the trailer below:
Janos451, an IMDB commenter from San Francisco, loved the movie's dramatic intensity:
What makes the film extraordinary - what creates all the crying in the audience - is its honest and effective portrayal of the young refugee's isolation and loneliness, made worse by his belief that his escape is at the cost of his mother's life
The film is based on the history of the Beta Israel (Ethiopian Jews) who, despite their efforts, have experienced a great deal of difficulty gaining acceptance after immigrating to Israel.
The movie has seen renewed interest recently as many African immigrants in Israel have been demonstrating for their rights.
Chad: "Un homme qui crie" (A Screaming Man)
"A Screaming Man," originally titled "A Screaming Man is Not a Dancing Bear," is a film by Chadian director Mahamat Saleh Haroun, released on September 29, 2010.
It received the Cannes Film Festival Jury Prize in 2010.
The original title is a quote from "Notebook of a Return to the Native Land" by Martinican poet Aimé Césaire.
The film tells the story of 55-year-old Adam, a former swimming champion turned hotel lifeguard in N'Djamena.
When the hotel is taken over by Chinese investors, he is forced to surrender his job to his son Abdel.
The blogger at Words of Katarina explains what makes the movie so compelling:
A Screaming Man talks about loss of self, not as a consequence of happenings beyond our control, but of the choices we make when life throws us off guard. . .
It is in fact up to ourselves to decide what kind of person we want to be and how to express and live up to the decision once it has been made.
Algeria/Morocco: "Indigènes" (Days of Glory)
"Days of Glory" is a 2006 Algerian-Moroccan film directed by Rachid Bouchareb.
The film tells the stories of one Moroccan and three Algerian soldiers serving in the French army during World War II: Abdelkader, Saïd, Mesaoud and Yassir.
While they are disillusioned by the discrimination they experience during the war, the movie also illustrates their emerging sense of hope and political consciousness.
Sarah Elkaïm, French writer and African affairs expert at Critikat explains the film's historical significance :
No one had yet endeavored to tell the story of tens of thousands of Africans from North Africa and beyond the Sahara in the French army, who helped liberate the country they always considered their homeland.
That's what makes this movie so emotional and powerful: the characters are fleshed out, not clichéd.
They are human, sometimes cowardly or scared. Above all else, they are men who have come to liberate their country from the Nazi yoke.
Madagascar: "Tabataba"
"Tabataba" ("rumblings" or "rumors" in Malagasy, but also the code name given to the events of the 1947 Malagasy Uprising in Madagascar) is a 1988 film by Raymond Rajaonarivelo.
The film tells the story of a Malagasy village fighting to achieve independence from French colonial rule.
For the villagers, rebellion takes different forms. Some believe in the power of democracy; others believe in the power of arms.
Director Raymond Rajaonarivelo describes how he wrote the screenplay for the film :
Everyone was telling me stories, but never the same one.
This resulted in a rumor, tabataba, that seemed to reflect what I had heard there.
These are all memories that I used to write the script.
Valérie Andrianjafitrimo, the reporter of Rajaonarivelo's remarks, adds :
For as we try to balance denial and commemoration, the balance between France's reinterpretations of the events and the Malagasy people's various perceptions, what is crucial is not the truth in historiography. That clearly resolves nothing when it comes to the shadows of memory or the event's symbolism.
Perhaps it is the rumor as an alternative voice, the "tabataba" - this muffled, continuous, multifaceted sound, ever-changing from restrained to deafening and from victimized to heroic - that is more important.
How Internet Tools Turned Ukraine's #Euromaidan Protests Into a Movement · Global Voices
This post is part of our Special Coverage Ukraine's #Euromaidan Protests.
As Euromaidan protests enter their third week in Ukraine, social media and technology still play a key role in their organization.
As the government violently cracked down on peaceful protesters on November 30, the eight day of the protests, this has turned into a mass anti-government movement in the country and has begun to resemble the 2004 Orange Revolution in many ways.
One of the major differences, however, between Euromaidan and the 2004 protests has been the use of new media, social networks and other IT tools for organizing and sustaining the protests.
A man opens his laptop while sitting on chopped wood amid protesters in Kyiv, Ukraine.
Photo by Dima Kravchuk. Dec. 5, 2013.
Used with permission.
Since the beginning of the protests, Facebook in particular has played a central role in organizing protesters and informing wider audiences about the latest developments.
The first gathering of protesters, organized in Kyiv on the eve of November 21 and which was immediately dubbed Euromaidan (European Square), was sparked by the appeals of several journalists and civil activists, including Mustafa Nayyem , a contributor of the leading independent online news outlet Ukrainska Pravda.
Organizing protesters through Facebook and Twitter
The now official EuroMaidan Facebook page set a new record in Ukraine , having accumulated 76,000 likes in just the first eight days of its existence.
The page is used to inform protesters about urgent news and issues, discuss plans of future actions, warn against using violence, share advice on how to deal with police forces, and much more.
A screenshot of an official Euromaiden protests Facebook page.
The inscription on the cover page quotes the country's constitution: "The people shall be the bearer of sovereignty and the sole source of power in Ukraine".
Official Euromaidan Twitter accounts @EuroMaydan and @EuroMaydan_eng play a role similar to their respective Facebook pages, while they also help inform international audiences about the protests in Ukraine that initially went almost unnoticed by international media.
Before these leading social media accounts emerged and accumulated their audience, users largely relied on hashtags (#Євромайдан in Ukrainian and #Евромайдан in Russian) to share information.
To help gather all relevant information and social media posts in one place, activists put together several websites with social media aggregators and useful links. Among them are Euromaidan.eu , Euromaidan.tk , Euromaidan.com , Maidan.in.ua .
"Euromaidan - SOS": Tracking repression and offering timely help
A screenshot of "Euromaidan-SOS" Facebook page, a group offering free legal assistance to victims of police violence or arrests on #Euromaidan.
A caption reads: "Human rights above all" .
Євромайдан SOS (Euromaidan SOS) gathers information about victims of police beatings, government pressure and detentions.
The description on the page reads :
This page is created to offer legal help for those injured during Euromaidan.
We - lawyers, civic activists and journalists - collect timely information about injured and active protesters, as well as about lawyers and consultants ready to offer legal advice, and put them in touch with each other.
If your relatives have gone missing or you have become a victim of beating - DO NOT KEEP SILENT!
Fight for your rights together with us!
Soon, a separate website, Eurozahyst.org , was also established for the same purpose.
An open Facebook group "The Revolution's Legal Department" has also been set up to discuss the legal side of Euromaidan-related developments in the country, share ideas and offer legal guidance to those who need it.
Along with lawyers, medical practicioners and students also organized to offer free medical aid to Euromaidan participants.
They have set up several Facebook pages including "Організація волонтерів-медиків" (Organization of volunteer doctors) and Майдан.Медики (Maidan.Doctors) for organizing medical volunteers, with the first on-the-ground headquarters based in Kyiv's Mykhailivsky Cathedral and on Independence Square, the main gathering sites of the protests.
A screenshot of a Facebook page for a group of volunteer doctors offering free medical aid for Euromaidan in Kyiv.
Crowdsourcing creative ideas and resources
Another Facebook page has been established to gather and share ideas for sustaining and expanding the Euromaidan movement.
The Information Center "НЕ ЗЛИй МАЙДАН" (Don't Ditch Maidan) began as an idea on December 1 at the main protest site in Kyiv, and the Facebook page was set up four days later.
With already more than 3,000 likes as of December 7, 2013, it solicits creative ideas for actions, slogans and posters from Facebook users and shares them with a wider Internet audience.
It also interacts with other Euromaidan-related online initiatives.
Image created by Vitaliy Moroz on Dec. 1, 2013 and circulated online.
The image conveys a key message about Euromaidan to the world.
In addition, a separate Facebook page "Страйк плакат" (Strike placard) has been established specifically for sharing creative posters and designs for the protest.
An NGO, "Kyevers for reforms", launched a crowdfunding initiative on Biggggidea.com, aiming to collect some 12,000 US dollars to help keep Euromaidan protesters in Kyiv warm and fed .
Double this amount was been collected for the project by its December 8, 2013 deadline.
Coordinating volunteers for Euromaidan
Many observers have noted how well-organized the main protest site, Maidan Nezalezhnosti (Independence Square), and the protest headquarters, the Kyiv City Administration building taken over by protesters on December 1, are.
In fact, Independence Square has already been barricaded by activists who protect it during the day and patrol it at night.
People also bring and serve food there, help provide shelter and medical aid for protesters, while activists also entertain each other with a wide range of activities , from football games to concerts, books and open public lectures offered by specialists in various areas.
While the credit for this goes to the protesters on the ground, activists have also made use of available Internet tools to aid the process.
Website Galas.org.ua uses crowdmapping to coordinate the needs of Euromaidan participants with volunteers willing to help.
A related Facebook page has also been launched.
A screenshot of a crowdmapping tool that activists use to coordinate Euromaidan volunteers in Kyiv.
Maidanhelp.org serves a similar purpose, crowdsourcing information about current needs of Euromaidan participants.
Solidarity through Internet access
With these and other initiatives emerging every day, it is clear that technology has become one of the keys to coordinating and, more importantly, sustaining Euromaidan protests in Ukraine.
During the previous weekend of protests, one of the major Ukrainian Internet providers, Volya-Cable, announced that it increased the speed of Internet connection for its clients residing in the center of Kyiv and called on them to open Internet access for protesters to use.
Many have followed this advice and opened their WiFi connections, while other users released their WiFi passwords to the public.
Coursera Online Courses Blocked in Syria, Iran and Cuba by US Sanctions [UPDATE] · Global Voices
UPDATE (January 30, 2014): Yesterday, Coursera posted an update on site accessibility in sanctioned countries.
While Coursera services in Cuba, Iran, and Sudan remain blocked, access for Syrian users has been restored due to an exception that "authorizes certain services in support of nongovernmental organizations’ activities in Syria, particularly as they pertain to increasing access to education."
Hit by US sanctions, online learning platform Coursera is no longer available for students from Syria, Sudan, Iran and Cuba.
Those affected were surprised to have the following message on their screen as they tried to access their courses:
Our system indicates that you are trying to access the Coursera site from an IP address associated with a country currently subjected to US economic and trade sanctions.
In order for Coursera to comply with US export controls, we cannot allow you to access to the site.
Iranian student Navid Soltani immediately expressed his outrage on Coursera's Facebook page:
Blogger Leila Nachawati shared her sentiments:
If @coursera believes in its own mission as a life-changer through education, it should ensure access to their site is reinstated in #Syria. — Leila Nachawati Rego (@leila_na) January 28, 2014
Syrian blogger and developer Anas Maarawi criticized the US sanctions on his blog :
Between the censorship imposed by the regime, which includes blocking hundreds of internet sites, and the effect of US sanctions, it has become nearly impossible for the remaining youth in the country to have access to online learning.
Editor-in-chief at Wamda Nina Curley was more pragmatic in her approach and asked if it was inevitable:
Was this inevitable?
A new solution is needed.
Online education platform Coursera blocks students in Syria and Iran: http://t.co/LPizvB61mL — Nina Curley (@9aa) January 27, 2014
However, one of Coursera's professors, Rolf Strom Olsen, couldn't understand why non-Americans are affected as well:
@KirstenWinkler Yep, 'education for everyone'.
Very unfortunate, isn't it? pic.twitter.com/IqmAxtDLdL — Deny Setiyadi (@dgsetiyadi) January 24, 2014
Cartoon Character 'Meena' Changes South Asian Attitudes Towards Girls · Global Voices
Screenshot from the cover of a Meena comic book.
Image courtesy UNICEF
Only two decades ago, the status of many women in some South Asian countries was low.
Many girls in rural areas were not allowed to study.
Girls were inevitably married off as soon as they grew up, so what good was studying?
Boys would get the best of the households' food, the girls the leftovers.
But this discriminatory mindset has changed tremendously, in part thanks to a cartoon character.
The fictional character Meena stars in the South Asian children's television show of the same name.
Promoted by UNICEF, Meena and her TV show is very popular in the region.
UNICEF developed the Meena Communication Initiative (MCI) as a mass communication project aimed at changing perceptions and behavior that hamper the survival, protection and development of girls in South Asia.
Bangladesh was the first country to meet Meena when a film about her struggle to go to school aired on Bangladesh national television (BTV) in 1993.
The secondary characters of her stories include Meena's brother Raju and her pet parrot Mithu.
Meet Meena.
Image from Wikimedia
According to an old report of UNICEF:
Since her inception 14 years ago she has shown millions of women and girls what can be achieved.
She has delivered messages on issues as far reaching as solving the problem of bullying through to challenging the stigma of HIV/AIDS through to girls' right to play sport.
The Meena stories are highly entertaining and fun, but also reflect, at their core, the realities of girls' lives in South Asia.
Meena has spread messages to stop child marriage and the practice of dowry and promote healthy toilet use, sending girls to school, equality between boys and girls and the right to education for the domestic workers.
Her shows highlights the potential contributions to society that girls can make if provided an equal playing field.
How can a message spread by a small cartoon girl be so empowering that it has helped change the society radically?
Housewife Naznin Rahman told the Daily Prothom Alo :
My mom Zohra Begum has taken dowry for her two elder sons.
In those days, Meena was not aired.
Since she started watching Meena, she had developed a special sympathy for girls in particular.
When she had her younger son married, we realized how she was affected by Meena.
She did not take any dowry for my younger brother.
Shuvo Ankur wrote on the BDNews24.com's kids page about the positive changes Meena has provoked:
Meena achieved popularity from the start.
The changes were visible soon after.
Earlier, in rural areas girl students dropped out of school and ended up working as a housemaid. But the situation changed after Meena's show began airing.
On screen, Meena was also not allowed to go to school first. But she changed her lot and got permission to go to school.
Meena's wit and intelligence allowed her to learn to count and other essential knowledge to save her father from the deception from other people.
She saved their cows from a thief.
Her intelligence became popular, and the negligence of girls in South Asian countries slowly started disappearing.
Sohanur Rahman wrote on Kishorebarta that there is a lot to learn from the cartoon show:
We have learnt a lot from Meena.
From the '90s till today, Meena has become a star and a special character in our society.
Meena is also broadcast on radio.
Farzana Islam Tithi, 24, who voices Meena, told The Daily Star:
Everyone loved Meena from their childhood and everyone, regardless of age, watched the cartoon eagerly.
I also used to watch it.
May be Meena’s accent struck to my mind since then and I believe that feeling helped me in my voice over for Meena.
Twitter user Bengalithings deemed Meena a role model:
To be honest, Meena from Meena cartoon was one of my childhood role models. #nosarcasm #truth #bengali — PerksOfBeingBengali♡ (@bengalithingss) October 24, 2013
The UNICEF Bangladesh Twitter account (@UNICEFBD) reminded that:
Animation character Meena continues to influence lives of children and dispel negative social stereotypes... http://t.co/h5mbXHr64Y — UNICEF Bangladesh (@UNICEFBD) December 24, 2013
Every year on 24th October "Meena Day" is observed in Bangladesh to promote social awareness on 100% enrollment of kids in school, avoid dropouts and ensure proper education.
According to reports , Meena has also become popular outside of the South Asian region.
It has been dubbed in more than 30 languages such as Arabic, Burmese and Chinese.
You can download free Meena comic books from here.
Four Biggest Misconceptions About #Euromaidan Protests in Ukraine · Global Voices
Ucrainica Marginalis published an overview of the four largest misconceptions about #Euromaidan, written by scholars Sofiya Grachova & Stephen A. Walsh.
What this overview points out is the vast gap between how international media and outside spectators view what is happening and the message that Ukrainians involved in Euromaidan protests are trying to get across to their government and the world.
Listed as the largest misconceptions are:
Misconception #1: Ukraine is divided between east and west.
Misconception #2: Ukrainian protests are about joining the EU.
Misconception #3: Protest forces in Ukraine are dominated by the far right.
Misconception #4: The protests should cease immediately and give way to negotiations between the regime and the leaders of opposition political parties.
Ukraine Stifles Freedom of Speech, Peaceful Protest With New Law · Global Voices
An anonymous image circulated online.
The inscription reads : "Now EVERYTHING is prohibited"This post is part of our Special Coverage Ukraine's #Euromaidan Protests.
On the 57th day of Ukraine's massive pro-European, anti-government protests, the country's parliament passed a law that limits freedom of assembly, restricts the country's media and clamps down on freedom of expression.
Law No. 3879 introduces a variety of legal changes "for protecting the security of citizens.”
Members passed the legislation during the parliament's first session of the new year on January 16, 2014.
The law comes as thousands of protesters continue to fill a central square in Kiev.
The Euromaidan protests, as they have been dubbed, began as peaceful pro-EU rallies but turned into a large-scale anti-government movement after police unleashed an aggressive crackdown against demonstrators - a handful of brutal beatings by police have been captured on film.
NGO Kharkiv Human Rights Protection Group called the new law repressive, citing its key issues:
A draft law “passed” in full by the ruling majority in parliament on Jan 16 criminalizes libel, labels and restricts civic associations receiving foreign grants as “foreign agents” and imposes and substantially increases liability for any forms of protest.
If the draft bill is signed by the parliamentary speaker Volodymyr Rybak and president, Viktor Yanukovych, it will set Ukraine’s democracy back by years.
Maksym Savanevsky of Watcher.com.ua noted that these and other measures, such as making it mandatory for citizens to show their passports to buy even a prepaid mobile SIM card, amount to a rise in censorship of journalists and Internet users’ expression, as well as increased control and surveillance over telecommunications systems and social media websites, under the guise of fighting extremism and violent uprisings:
Today the Verkhovna Rada majority adopted a law which basically introduces censorship on the Internet.
Lawyer Dmytro Nazarets posted a few express analysis posts mentioning a new requirement that all Internet news sites and news agencies are now obligated to register with the authorities:
No more writing and posting news on your website without oversight and registration
Journalist Mustafa Nayyem pointed out on Facebook the viciousness with which the law’s authors dealt with social media:
Social media denounced by the explanatory note to the controversial draft law adopted by the Ukrainian parliament.
The authors insist social media are used as a tool to spread these ideas and fuel hostility, where calls to violently change power and constitution are becoming more and more frequent.
Rachel Denber, the Deputy Director of the Europe and Central Asia division for Human Rights Watch, succinctly summed up numerous comparisons with Russia:
What #Russia did in 60 days after Putin's inaug, #Ukraine did in 20 minutes: "foreign agents" law, limits on demos, criminalz of libel, etc — Rachel Denber (@Rachel_Denber) January 16, 2014
Budget vote brawl
The parliament also voted on the year's state budget on the same day.
The budget has been highly controversial with the opposition criticizing it for multiple flaws, including a drastic increase in funding for law enforcement agencies at the expense of such items as healthcare.
Opposition MPs had pledged to block parliament and prevent voting at all costs.
At first, things seemed to progress according to their plan.
However, the opposition quickly lost control, with the pro-government majority voting in support of the budget and bypassing regular voting procedure.
Editor of an English-language Kyiv-based publication, the Kyiv Post, Christopher Miller tweeted:
And...#Ukraine's parliament passes 2014 budget.
No discussions, debates.
A quick & dirty vote, & that was that.
Regions Party has the power. — Christopher Miller (@ChristopherJM) January 16, 2014
A brawl during the parliament session followed, with the opposition physically trying to prevent their rivals from using the electronic voting system.
However, the pro-presidential majority quickly retreated and continued voting by a raise of hands.
Opposition MP Andriy Shevchenko commented on the violations of voting procedure:
While the whole country is watching, the seventh Ukrainian Verkhovna Rada is ceasing to exist.
What a f*cking shame... #Рада7
20 minutes that destroyed the remnants of Ukrainian democracy
"The day democracy died"
Later, President Viktor Yanukovych signed all five laws, including the openly anti-protest law no.
3879, sparking outrage in the Ukrainian online community.
Kyiv-based Anglophone blogger Taras Revunets tweeted:
#YANUKOVYCH SIGNS #DICTATORSHIP BILL INTO LAW.
Twitter user Igor Shevchenko went even further in his comparisons :
Now we are North Korea.
And we have our own Vik Fed Yan
Yet many other social media users have ridiculed the new measures, pointing out their absurdity.
The civic movement "Chesno" posted the following photo, noting that it depicts something already "fobidden" by the new law:
Civic movement "Chesno" depicting an activity technically illegal under new legislation.
Photo by Hanna Hrabarska. Used with permission.
In the meantime, here we are - foreign agents, office of the CHESNO movement, a group of more than five, wearing MASKS!
This post is part of our Special Coverage Ukraine's #Euromaidan Protests.
Tetyana Bohdanova (listed as the author) and Tetyana Lokot co-authored this post.
A Riot Within Pussy Riot? · Global Voices
Images mixed by Kevin Rothrock.
Since their release from jail late last year Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alekhina, members of the feminist punk collective Pussy Riot, have gone on a worldwide publicity tour, visiting countries in Asia and Europe.
At the time of their release they had announced that their new goal is the fight for human rights, specifically the rights of Russian prisoners — political or otherwise.
Last night, Feb 5, as part of this tour they appeared at an Amnesty International-organized concert in New York.
According to journalist Anton Krasovsky (who himself was at once point persecuted for his sexual orientation) the concert wouldn't have been possible without the help of Russian billionaire and erstwhile presidential candidate Mikhail Prokhorov and his sister Irina.
During their segment the Pussy Riot girls spoke about human rights abuses in Russia, and educated the audience about the Bolotnaya Square case, which many view as political in nature:
We are in New York, and there are 15,000 more people who know about the #BolotnoeCase.
Starting today.
And yes, we believe in caring
While in New York they also met US ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, who called them "brave troublemakers" in a tweet, and appeared on the Colbert Report.
(The founder of the nationalist online publication Sputnik & Pogrom pointed out that they were probably the first guest Colbert interviewed through an interpreter.)
Unfortunately, all of this publicity may have ruffled a few feathers back home. The day after the concert, other, anonymous members of Pussy Riot (the reader will remember that although 3 persons were arrested, at least 5 women were involved in the punk performance in the Cathedral of Christ the Savior) made a statement on their LiveJournal page, pussy-riot.livejournal.com .
In this statement they proclaimed that Tolokonnikova and Alekhina are no longer members of Pussy Riot, because their human-rights activism is necessarily in opposition to the violent disruption at the heart of of the Pussy Riot method:
We are very happy Masha and Nadya were released. Unfortunately for us, they are so concentrated on the problem of Russian prisons, that they forgot about the goals and ideals of our group: feminism, separatist insurgence, struggle against authoritarianism and the cult of personality Human rights activism can't criticize norms and rules that are at the base of the modern patriarchal society, because it is an institutionalized part of this society
They also criticized the Amnesty International concert, which billed Tolokonnikova and Alekhina's involvement as the first legal performance of Pussy Riot.
"Pussy Riot doesn't do legal performances" — say the anonymous members.
In fact, the whole idea is inimical to the concept of punk protest.
They also stressed anonymity as an integral part of the Pussy Riot image, so it is unclear if Ekaterina Samutsevich, who previously had a falling out with Tolokonnikova and Alekhina when she took a plea bargain for early release, is still part of the collective.
Is this an attempt to hijack a worldwide, popular brand?
Or, perhaps, Pussy Riot is indeed larger than its two most famous members.
In any case, the group behind the statement is unequivocal:
Since we are now on opposite sides of the barricades with Nadya and Masha, separate us.
Remember, we are no longer Nadya and Masha, they are no longer Pussy Riot.
Violence Escalates as Protests Continue in Venezuela · Global Voices
Protesters avoiding tear gas thrown by the National Guard.
February 19, 2014.
Altamira, Caracas.
By Sergio Álvarez, copyright Demotix
After Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro announced in a national broadcast that he would carry out special measures in the Táchira state to control demonstrations, internet users from different cities started to report irregularities related to police officers, the National Guard and some armed civilian groups in motorbikes.
Venezuela is going through an economic, political and social crisis which brought about thousands of citizens taking the streets to express their discontent.
For more than a week, Venezuelans have been involved in mass protests that, until now, have caused five deaths and hundreds of wounded and incarcerated people.
On February 19, Twitter and Facebook were used by protesters and witnesses to denounce the day-to-day repression carried out by security forces.
However, this is not new, since a viral video by the research unit of the Últimas Noticias newspaper showed some members of the secret police SEBIN (Bolivarian National Intelligence Service) in the same moment and place where people were found dead last February 12. This Youtube video allegedly shows members of the Bolivarian National Guard (GNB for its initials in Spanish) destroying everything they find in their way in Valencia, the capital city of Carabobo state, located nearly 250km away from Caracas.
Carmela Longo asked for help and described what she was witnessing: Help! groups are shooting at buildings in Horizonte
Malaysian Plane Carrying 239 People Reported Missing · Global Voices
Malaysian Airline.
Flickr photo by planegeezer (CC License)On Saturday 8th of March, news media around the world reported that a plane by Malaysia Airlines en route to China went missing.
Flight MH370 from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing lost contact with air traffic controllers, with the airline and authorities being unable to locate the aircraft since.
The flight was carrying 227 passengers and 12 cabin crew.
According to The Guardian newspaper, the aircraft lost radar contact in Vietnamese airspace.
The airline has since posted several times on its Facebook page providing public updates about the situation, including a statement by its CEO Ahmad Jauhari Yahya:
We deeply regret that we have lost all contacts with flight MH370 which departed Kuala Lumpur at 12.41 am earlier this morning bound for Beijing.
The aircraft was scheduled to land at Beijing International Airport at 6.30am local Beijing time.
Subang Air Traffic Control reported that it lost contact at 2.40am (local Malaysia time) today.
Flight MH370 was operated on a Boeing B777-200 aircraft.
The flight was carrying a total number of 239 passengers and crew – comprising 227 passengers (including 2 infants), 12 crew members.
The passengers were of 13 different nationalities.
Malaysia Airlines is currently working with the authorities who have activated their Search and Rescue team to locate the aircraft.
Our team is currently calling the next-of-kin of passengers and crew.
Another press release by the airline identified the pilot as Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah, who has 18,365 flying hours under his belt.
On Twitter, many have expressed concern and worry:
Flown Malaysia Airlines @MAS many times, including one of their 777-200s from KL to Shanghai.
Thoughts with all at this hard time. — Peter McGinley (@PeterMcGinley) March 8, 2014
There are reports that Malaysia plane has crashed but no official confirmation. http://t.co/tE3HWmeNBt #BreakingNews — Christl Dabu (@ChristlJZDabu) March 8, 2014
The Malaysia Airlines' flight that disappeared is exactly why I'm terrified of flying — Jonathan Woelk (@jonathanwoelk) March 8, 2014
Fingers crossed the Malaysia Airlines plane did not crash and the 239 people aboard are safe and sound — C0l\l0R. (@F_ckOhioSt) March 8, 2014
Very shocking news for aviation industry and those onboard!
BBC News - Malaysia Airlines loses contact with plane flying to Beijing — Stephen Chimalo (@SChimalo) March 8, 2014
The incident even prompted a response from the Malaysian Prime Minister, Najib Razak, on Twitter:
My thoughts and prayers are with the family members of flight #MH370.
I've asked all measures possible to be taken. — Mohd Najib Tun Razak (@NajibRazak) March 8, 2014
Reuters have now reported that the plane crashed in the South China Sea, however no official announcement has been made at the time of writing.
#DZ2014, a Hashtag against Fraud and Dictatorship in Algeria · Global Voices
Algeria is about to witness crucial presidential elections. The country's future is at stake.
Election day is penciled in for April 17.
Having ruled the country for 15 years, Abdelaziz Bouteflika announced his intention to run once more for a 4th term.
This announcement is far from being saluted and many have voiced their opposition to this political project.
The protest movement is mobilizing through social networks and the web.
It all started on Facebook.
On February 22, Algerians from various backgrounds gathered in front of the University of Algiers in Bouzareah , a suburb and a district in the capital.
Their slogans describe their rage and anger.
Their demands are a reflection of a profound desire for change.
But no sooner had they started demonstrating than the police cracked down on those protesters and arrested them.
This is a video of the gathering :
A woman who took part in this event, explains why she is against a 4th term for Bouteflika:
Previously in 2008, we weren't expecting it at all .
It was so surprising that it went ok.
But this time before he even declares his intention to run for a 4th term, we want to tell him STOP.
We don't want you!
Algeria is not a monarchy.
Algeria is not a dictatorship.
It is a state based on the rule of law and we all want to work towards that.
Amira, Idir, Leila and others were certain they will be outnumbered by the Algerian police during the protest. Yet they still gathered.
But whether consciously or not, they also proved that social networks are highly monitored by the security apparatus in Algeria.
They also proved that for any democratic mobilization to possibly take place in Algeria it has to channel through social platforms.
When their call for protest was first initiated on Facebook , nobody took them seriously.
But then day after day, the number of those supporting this call started growing. They are moved by one goal: Saying no to a 4th term of 77 years old Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the Algerian President who has been governing the country since 1999.
A president seeking to keep his hands on the reins of power while he had promised, just two years before in 2012, to pass the torch to the youth of the country.
Consequently a protest movement was organized with gatherings taking place every week in front of the Algerian universities trying to impede the reelection of Bouteflika for 5 more years.
Many other initiatives were also set up by cyber-activists. But in a spirit of the unity of the cause, these efforts were pooled under one hashtag: #DZ2014.
Through this hashtag, netizens are redirected to a multitude of Facebook Pages that keep them updated on the latest: the Presidential Election scheduled for April 17 in Algeria.
Pages like 1, 2, 3 win rayah ya Si, DZ Wikileaks, Envoyés Spéciaux Algériens, Antichitadz Algérie Discussion, Algérie Election Présidentielle.
These pages became tools to fight the alleged fraud in the pre-electoral period.
But Facebook and Twitter are more than just news sources.
Mobilization can be as successful when achieved through humor and satire.
For instance, Radio Trottoirpage became really popular in that respect for its photo-montage, jibes, and mocking videos.
This photo designed by Kamel Labiad, an "Algerian graphic designer and film maker living in the UK" went viral on Facebook is an example of Algerians' dark humor:
The caricature translates as follows: They ask you to vote?
Answer them by 4 (no's): 4th mandate, hereditary transmission, corruption, dinosaurs Even the regime servants are opposed to this 4th term which humiliates Algeria.
We as well should say no and refuse to grant Bouteflika 5 more years in power. Citizen Groupies are filming their protests and try to raise the awareness of the public opinion.
These videos have been heavily shared on social media.
Their dissemination has been made more possible through the hashtag #DZ2014.
Is Japan Ready to Host the Paralympics? · Global Voices
For this year’s Blog Action Day, contributors from Global Voices Japan got together online to write about human rights for the disabled in Japan.
Is Japan really an accommodating place for people with disabilities?
Ayako Yokota and Ryan Ball co-authored this post.
Braille block floor in Japan helps guide the visually impaired.
By Miki Yoshihito on Flickr (CC BY 2.0)
Preparations have begun for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics.
The construction of beautiful new architectural structures and facilities is an important part of this preparation, not least to accommodate very diverse visitors to Japan from around the world.
Tokyo is often criticized for poor wheelchair access and for not developing enough facilities for handicapped people.
The scarceness of land in a city known for being "compact" may sometimes fall short of offering universal access for people with disabilities.
Kazuko Itoh, the editor of Challengers.tv , a sports news website by non-profit organization STAND, says they no longer present disabled athletes a in category of its own.
Partly this it to help prepare the local sports community to host the Paralympics, but also because there appears to be genuine interest.
Japan is a hyper-aging society, and this is likely a contributing factor for expanding the idea of universal design to larger public.
Kazuko Itoh writes in a recent column article:
I am not worried at all about Japan hosting the Olympics.
This is because, I am sure that Japan and Tokyo are capable enough of doing so.
However, how about the Paralympics?
At this moment, most of people are not that interested in nor have a good understanding of the Paralympics compared to the Olympics.
This is something I think we should work on changing over the next seven years.
In the first place, the Olympics or Paralympics are not the final goal.
It is a step towards creating a better society.
Only when this is accomplished, can the Olympics and Paralympics realize their true meaning as a “Festival of Peace”.
Therefore, Japan has to prepare for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics & Paralympics with full attention to detail and create an event that is unique and authentic to Japan.
She quotes Mr. Junichi Kawai, a blind swimmer who has competed in the Paralympics 6 consecutive times and has won a total of 21 medals (5 gold medals, 9 silver and 7 bronze):
Everyone finds something wrong in your body when you get old, for example your eyes.
Knowing that, how about considering us challenged people as “your life teachers”?
When you become old, maybe you will be involved in a situation that is similar to ours.
If you listen to those of us who are already ahead of everyone and know what everyone will experience in the future, maybe a society in which elderly people can easily live in will be realized.
Kazuko adds in her post that the benefit of the impaired is equally beneficial to general public, especially when the country faces with a hyper-aging society.
In other words, creating a city where Paralympic athletes and visitors with disabilities can stay comfortably will directly lead to a city that is better prepared to cater to a hyper-aging society.
Once you can make the city comfortable for persons with disabilities, people around the world will nod and say they too want to live a happy life in Japan once they get old.
History of Providing Solutions for the Disabled
In fact, Japan has made efforts to accommodate the disabled since long before becoming the host of the Olympics.
It was in Japan that braille block, bumpy tiles set in public areas to mark the path for the blind were first invented.
The braille block was first implemented 46 years ago in Okayama city by a hotelier and inventor named Seiichi Miyake .
After witnessing in person how a visually impaired person was almost hit by a car, Seiichi came up with the idea of braille blocks through discussion with a visually impaired friend, Hideyuki Iwahashi.
Twitter user E-Ken who describes himself as 3D-CAD data architect commented :
So braille tiles are a Japanese creation!?
It’s normal to see them now but I guess it took them a long time to catch on. The people who first spread the word are really great.
Braille tile history… I knew completely nothing about that.
Waiting for the government to act won’t make society a kinder, easier place for people to live; it takes the strength one person’s heart.
I’m moved.
Japan's Ice Sledge Hockey Captain Takayuki Endo with Silver Medal (March 2010).
By Leanne Scherp © Copyright Demotix
Blogger Teevtee, who blogs about amusement parks at Parkeology.com, writes about the myth of Japan being inhospitable for people with disabilities.
In fact Japan has many aids for people with different disabilities.
One will find not only the standard Braille in elevators and so on, but also audible beeps at cross sections alerting people when the walk sign is on, and tactile paving throughout most public streets and train stations that guide those without sight where to walk and warn them of intersections.
The tactile paving was invented in Japan in the 1960’s and is now ubiquitous throughout the country, not just at crosswalks but throughout huge swaths of cities and public spaces.
New Challenges for Solutions
Japan’s effort to achieve barrier-free, universal access are also seen among technology inventions.
Japan's Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Japan, and the National Printing Bureau is putting together a smartphone app for the visually impaired to recognize paper money bills.
There is also an iPad app for remote translation of signs implemented by Japanese Railways East for both foreigners and the visually impaired.
But technology may not be enough.
It will take real human awareness to further enable universal design among the Japanese.
The Paralympics Ice Sledge hockey athlete Daisuke Uehara writes in his blog :
On my way to practice, I saw a mother with her child in junior high school parking her car at section for a disabled person.
That’s like teaching her child the exact opposite of morality.
As a country that will host the Paralympics, we need to change these people who conduct such shameful activities, and be courageous to challenge just like the athletes challenge their dreams.
Jose Dos Santos, the 1.8-Billion-Dollar President of Angola · Global Voices
The top five presidents worldwide who have held on to power the longest and who are still ruling are all Africans, mostly known for their various misdeeds: rigged elections, embezzlement, ill-gotten wealth and human rights violations.
One of those five is the President of Angola, José Eduardo dos Santos.
Dos Santos has been ruling Angola since 1979.
During his tenure, several local and international NGOs have denounced many human rights scandals and corruption cases connected to his reign.
J.R. Mailey, a researcher at the Africa Center for Strategic Studies working on natural resources, corruption and security in Africa, points out that:
For decades, a tiny clique revolving around the president of Angola has deftly used anonymous shell companies to loot billions in state assets.
These shell companies are incorporated in 'offshore' financial centres known as 'tax havens' or 'secrecy jurisdictions'.
President José Eduardo dos Santos being decorated by President Vladimir Putin of Russia.
Source: cabinda.net with permission
The website cabinda.net estimates Dos Santos' personal wealth at more than 20 billion US dollars for 2013.
Angola’s 2013 budget for the president's expenses increased 50 percent over the 2012 budget, taking the overall budget to a record high of 6.6 trillion Angolan kwanza (around 69 billion US dollars).
Meanwhile, 70 percent of Angolans live on less than two dollars a day.
Rafael Marques de Morais wrote about this increase in a blog post entitled "A Record Budget for the Presidency, the Military and the Spooks":
The Presidency alone has a budget of US $1.8 billion, which is more than the funds for the Ministry of Health (US $1.5 billion).
For comparison's sake, for the year 2013, British taxpayers were taxed 53.4 million US dollars for the expenses related to the royal family's spending. French tax payers will contribute 101.6 million euros (140 million US dollars) in 2014 for the expenses related to President François Hollande's activities.
Presseurop.eu reveals that additional "dubious" capital transfers implicating Dos Santos' family can be traced to recent investments in Portugal:
His “own family”, and above all his eldest daughter. Isabel Dos Santos, aged 40.
A graduate of King's College in London, and the only female billionaire in Africa, Ms Dos Santos is one of the key figures in this steamy post-colonial saga.
The heiress, from an earlier marriage of Dos Santos, holds a breathtaking portfolio of assets in Portugal.
In just a few years, she has taken over half the capital of the telecom giant created by the merger between ZON and Optimus, and a good chunk of Portuguese bank BPI, in which she is the second-largest shareholder with a stake of 19.4 per cent.
She is also on the board of directors of another financial institution, BIC Portugal, and has shares in Amorim Energia, which controls nearly 40 per cent of Galp, one of Europe’s leading petroleum and gas groups.
Cartoon on human rights in Angola via Maka with permission
The origin of Isabel Dos Santos' wealth was investigated at length by Forbes in 2013.
Oddly enough, a few months later, Forbes magazine established a partnership with a company a company of which Isabel Dos Santos owns 70 percent to start a new magazine for Portuguese-speaking Africa.
Jean-Paul Marthoz, a Belgian journalist and senior adviser at the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), wrote on the organization's blog about Angolan investments in Portugal:
One source of concern is the Newshold media group, a company owned by Pineview Overseas, a Panama-based offshore company, whose shareholders are powerful Angolan figures including tycoon Alvaro Sobrinho.
Newshold controls Sol, Portugal's third largest weekly, and owns stakes in two leading magazines, Visâo and Expresso, as well as Correio da Manhâ, the largest-circulation Lisbon tabloid, and the business paper Jornal de Negocios.
It has also expressed interest in case the Portuguese government eventually decides to privatize the public service broadcaster RTP (Radio e Televisâo Portuguesa).
Many Angolan investors are known to be closely linked to Angola's presidential entourage and the MPLA (People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola), which has ruled the country without interruption since independence in 1975.
In 2013, Luanda, the capital of Angola, was ranked for the second time in three years as the most expensive city in the world.
Yet the majority of its population live in slums and are economically excluded from the modern sector.
Blogger Aminata, a correspondent for Cross Worlds in Luanda, recalls her own experience with the cost of living in Luanda:
To live in Luanda on the side of the Force is to be able to go out on New Year's Eve and spend at least 30,000 kwanza (300 US dollars) to have access to a party.
That evening, I unfortunately had to sink to the level of the "dark side", since the price of the evening was a little more than half of my monthly intern fellowship ...
To live in Luanda on the side of the Force is also to be able to afford a flat in a newly built building for a whopping 7,500 US dollars per month in rent (the average price for a flat with a living room and two other rooms), enjoying the comfort of modern living and the "charming" view of the "musseques" (slums).
To live in Luanda on the side of the Force is also making an appointment with your hairdresser in Lisbon, make the round trip for a weekend (after all, a red-eye to go to see your hairdresser must be worth it ) and take the opportunity to do some shopping.
Cláudio Silva recently wrote a post for Global Voices entitled Fighting the Poor Instead of Poverty in Angola.
The post provides additional information on the daily struggle for survival in the streets of Luanda.
The Syrian Uprising through the Eyes of Syrian Women · Global Voices
This post was previously published on Syria Untold. March 15 marks the anniversary of the popular uprising against tyranny in Syria.
A few days before that date in 2011, Syrian citizens were already demonstrating in front of the Tunisian, Libyan, and Egyptian embassies, to support the mobilizations that spread throughout the region starting in late 2010.
Men and women stood in solidarity with the struggles of their neighbors, which Syrians could very much relate to.
Three years into the uprising, Syria Untold looked at Syria through the eyes of three women who have actively worked to promote justice and freedom in the country.
Banner from the campaign for the release of Syrian activist Razan Ghazzawi: "The regime does not fear those imprisoned, but those who do not forget them."
Source: Syria Planet
A women's uprising?
Since very early in the uprising, women worked hand-in-hand with men in the organization of protests and other civil disobedience initiatives.
Marwa Ghamian was one of the first people to be arrested for calling for freedom in public, on March 15, 2011, during a demonstration in Damascus's Hamidiah market.
For decades, freedom of expression and assembly were forbidden in the country, so there was no room to engage in free independent discussions on any issues, including those affecting women.
“With the beginning of the uprising, I felt there was a space for personal and public freedom that I had never experienced in my life,” Khawla Dunia said to Syria Untold.
“I could raise my voice, speak up, demand my rights, in the streets of Damascus and elsewhere.”
“This was the case for women from very different intellectual and social backgrounds, who were involved at every level of the protests,” Razan Ghazzawi added.
If women played a crucial role during the peaceful stage of the uprising, they have been less instrumental in the armed struggle.
“As militarization gained ground, the role of women decreased significantly, and became mostly reduced to humanitarian aid and relief,” Yara Nassir said.
In areas free of regime control, however, the participation of women has ranged from very active to anecdotic, depending on who controls the area.
The nature of power in each city and village, which varies from civil to moderate Islamic ruling in some, to Al-Qaeda affiliated groups in others, makes a big difference regarding women's freedom of movement and action.
Hammered by the regime's oppression, and by new impositions
“Syrian women today continue to be hammered by the regime's oppression on the one hand, and by new impositions on the other,” Nassir added.
“The situation is dramatic, as women continue to suffer in areas under regime control, while in many liberated areas they are pushed out of public spaces and decision-making processes.
Women continue to look for a civil space where they can freely develop and express themselves.
The fact that the revolution did not incorporate women's rights at its core is part of the problem.
Gender equality was not at the center of the movement for change.”
A change in mindset is needed, Dunia agreed, and that is what drove Syrians to the streets in the first place, but current circumstances have not allowed this change to come about.
“I often get interrogated at checkpoints about what I am wearing, where is my family and whether I am married or not, questions that men never get asked,” Ghazzawi highlighted.
“As if I could not work freely for my own country, the country I own a passport for.”
She blames her fellow activists, both from the armed and peaceful struggle, for not speaking out against the treatment female activists receive in some of the liberated areas. “I have not heard one of my comrades publicly denounce such restrictions against women,” she complained.
Nassir's experience in the liberated areas is quite different. “All the time I was there, I never covered my head and I was not once talked to about this issue, neither by the local population nor by any soldier.”
Regarding the different sources of violence, the activists agree on the regime bearing the ultimate responsibility for the abuses taking place in the country. “The comparison between violence coming from the regime and that coming from the opposition is a false one.
The regime targets the population as a whole, engages in massive detentions, torture and killing,” Ghazzawi said.
Today, women find themselves trapped between the struggle against the regime and other daily threats, such as the ones posed by extremist groups filling the power vacuum in the liberated areas, that have a chilling effect on women´s rights.
In addition to that, many are asking whether this is the time to discuss such issues, considering them to be luxuries in the face of death, hunger and deprivation on the ground.
However, as Dunia said, it is not about women's rights only, but about the demands of justice, equality and citizenship that took Syrians to the street since March 2011. This post was previously published on Syria Untold.
Ukrainian Journalists Take Regime's Corruption Public With YanukovychLeaks · Global Voices
YanukovychLeaks.org, a new website created by Ukrainian journalists to publish documents that were found in Victor Yanukovych's residence.
Many of them document evidence of massive corruption of the regime.
This post is part of our Special Coverage Ukraine's #Euromaidan Protests.
After former Ukrainian President Victor Yanukovych fled Kiev in the wake of escalating protests, regime violence and major reshuffles in Parliament, one of the things he left behind was his massive, opulent residence on the outskirts of the capital, Mezhyhirya.
The palatial estate soon opened its doors to protesters, journalists and ordinary citizens, who wanted to see for themselves how their President had lived.
But among the many grandiose buildings and signs of an excessive lifestyle (a zoo! a galleon ship! a golf course!), journalists and activists found a more important treasure - reams of paperwork on the estate, blacklists of journalists and activists, and financial records. Some of them were half-burned, others dumped in the water of the Dnieper river and the Kyiv Sea on the edge of the land.
Journalist Oleksandr Aronets, now famous for his endless live streams from Euromaidan, was one of the first to spot the papers in the water:
The documents are just floating in the Dniepro! Katya Gorchinskaya, a journalist for local English news outlet Kyiv Post, tweeted about how the documents were rescued: diver about to dive into freezing Kyiv Sea to keep looking for Yanukovych files in #Mezhyhirya pic.twitter.com/PajSkwj2rx — Katya Gorchinskaya (@kgorchinskaya) February 24, 2014
As the documents were rescued and set to dry, a group of journalists came together swiftly to start photographing and cataloging the newly discovered information, to preserve it for future investigations.
Katya Gorchinskaya posted this photo of some of the work:
What is happening now in Mezhyhirya is a project unique even by world standards.
Several dozen journalists are copying thousands of pages of evidence of the corrupt nature of Yanukovych found here.
This is a photo of a working sauna in Yanukovych's guest house, where the documents fished out of the Kyiv Sea are drying out.
As the journalists worked, they posted select findings on social networks - like these outrageous finds from Katya Gorchinskaya and Christopher Miller of Kyiv Post:
A group of journalists from English-language Ukrainian newspaper Kyiv Post, Ukrainska Pravda and several other media realized that the treasure trove they were looking at needed to be preserved at all costs - so they decided to cooperate in the documentation, preservation and cataloging of everything - and to report later.
The result of their quick thinking is a website called YanukovychLeaks, which currently houses the growing collection of photos and scans of the documents found at Yanukovych's estate. Katya Gorchinskaya tweeted happily about the new arrangement:
documents fished out in river by #Mezhyhirya are going up here. http://t.co/0nwitdoRWo proud to have been part of the initial recovery team — Katya Gorchinskaya (@kgorchinskaya) February 25, 2014
Local and international journalists also expressed their excitement at the new website.
Maxim Eristavi, journalist and editor of a local radio station, thought the site would be popular:
Global Investigative Journalism Network also tweeted about YanukovychLeaks and reported in-depth on how the Ukrainian initiative came together: How journalists in #Ukraine fished out documents from a lake #Yanukovychleaks http://t.co/u0hDN72srJ pic.twitter.com/I7O2dEKNDh — GIJN (@gijn) February 25, 2014
The reporters soon learned that if the waterlogged piles were not separated and dried, they would turn into a pasty clump that could never be rescued.
The team took over a boat shed the first night and then the next day moved to an opulent guest house on the grounds to lay out more documents. It became their headquarters.
A sign outside reads “Journalism Investigation in Process – Do Not Disturb.” — from GIJN piece "YanukovychLeaks: How Ukraine Journalists Are Making History"
New York Times The Lede blog also ran a story about the project:
Ukrainian Journalists Launch YanukovychLeaks http://t.co/rBKU16hy6g — NYTimes Lede Blog (@thelede) February 25, 2014
On February 25, a member of the YanukovychLeaks team, Natalie Sedletska of RadioLiberty, reported on the massive traffic to the new website: 1.5 million hits reached #yanukovychleaks — Natalie Sedletska (@natasedletska) February 25, 2014 Besides the main website, YanukovychLeaks.org, the team also created a Facebook page, inviting other journalists and citizens to collaborate and follow their work.
In A Syrian Neighbourhood, Rocket Fire Becomes The New Normal · Global Voices
This post is part of a special series of articles by blogger and activist, Marcell Shehwaro, describing the realities of life in Syria during the ongoing armed conflict between forces loyal to the current regime, and those seeking to oust it.
Blogger and activist Marcell Shehwaro at a protest in Syria.
Image courtesy Marcell Shehwaro
This would have been a different article if I had adhered to the saying which I was taught as a child: "Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today."
I intended to write this last night, then realised my laptop battery was about to run out.
I've had no electricity in my house for the past two days, so I decided to put off writing till this morning.
This post was supposed to be about the daily life of a normal girl who is a just bit different.
Let's call her an activist, as this label is more attractive to some.
I was commissioned by Global Voices Online to convey to you some details of our daily lives in Syria.
This is what I planned to write about, had I written this post last night, and had I not been such a slave to technology.
I could, after all, have written it on paper, by the light of a kerosene lamp.
It seems I have lost the ability to write without hearing the sound of my fingers tapping on the keyboard.
But let's return to the article.
I went to sleep thinking that I would write it this morning, as soon as I had found a source of electricity. However, the Syrian Air Defense Force had other plans.
I woke up at 8am to the sound of a nearby explosion—a rocket from the Air Defense Force fell about 100 metres from my house in the liberated Mashad neighborhood in Aleppo.
We started counting.
Two. . . three. . . seven. . . .
This one was further away.
Eight. . . . The windows started to rattle.
I decided to open all the doors and windows.
All that I could think that moment was that catching influenza from the cold would be less painful than the shrapnel of broken glass.
I gathered all the blankets I could find, crawled under them and dozed off.
War has taught me that I should always sleep, no matter what horrors were unfolding outside.
It was a Friday and I was supposed to attend a protest in the Bustan Al Qaser neighborhood.
I got dressed and went out into the street, which seemed to be a brave step, considering the bombardment.
Suddenly, the neighborhood I am so used to seemed totally strange.
16 rockets fell, according to friends who kept count.
And 16 rockets is enough to change the characteristics of a modest neighborhood like the one I live in.
Rubble and glass were everywhere, and my Uggs boots weren't exactly the best kind of footwear to be wearing in these circumstances.
On the streets, everyone was looking up at the sky.
And I mean everyone.
Five or six other people were the only civilians outside their homes.
An old man cried like a street vendor soliciting customers, not forewarning of death: "It is coming closer. . . . It has arrived. . . .
It shot. . . ." His monotone was sadder than the sight of the rubble.
The fighter jet hits close.
And some run away from the sound of the explosion.
My friend and I laugh at the idea of trying to outrun a fighter jet.
Do those people think we are still in the days of the peaceful protests where we could run to escape live bullets?
Or is it just a survival instinct, spontaneous and illogical?
Who really can outrun a fighter jet?
The jet empties its load again, so my friend and I decide that it is stupid to continue walking towards the protest.
We enter a nearby building, where we find a crowd of civilians, trembling.
I envy their ability to be afraid. This means either that their lives are still meaningful, or that, unlike us, they're aren't used to witnessing death.
The loudspeakers are calling on people in the higher floors to come down.
The sound of ambulance sirens gets louder.
Suddenly, we hear a volley of bullets.
My friend asks: "Can those bullets hit the plane?" He answers his own question: "No, my dear, those are the bullets of oppression."
I envy the militant who feels oppressed.
Then everything is normal.
Soon, we will continue our journey.
In a few hours, life will be back to normal and the streets will be full of vendors and passers-by.
Only those beneath the rubble and their families, and those who have lost their homes, will cry today.
Some of the images may or may not remain in our memory—that of the grieving mother watching her house burn with her son is still inside; or the daughter relating how the kitchen caved in with her mother in it.
For us, it was just a normal day of living with explosives.
My friend corrects me: this time it wasn't explosives, but rockets.
Please accept my apology for the error: it was just a normal day with rockets.
Marcell Shehwaro blogs at marcellita.com and tweets at @Marcellita, both primarily in Arabic.
You can read the first two posts in this series here and here.
The 'Woman Who Was Dragged' and Killed by Brazil's Military Police · Global Voices
Image by Collective ñ, free use.
Claudia Silva Ferreira was shot in the neck and back during a military police operation on the morning of March 16, 2014 in the Morro da Congonha favela, or slum, in the north of Rio de Janeiro.
Unconscious, the 38-year-old woman and mother known as Cacau was put in the trunk of a police car to supposedly be taken to the hospital.
Neighbors and friends tried to stop the police from taking her, but the officers fired warning shots in the air to disperse the crowd, and with the trunk open they took her away.
Then, on the Intendente Magalhães highway, her apparently lifeless body rolled out of the trunk, and secured by a piece of clothing, was dragged along the asphalt for at least 250 meters without the officers in the car paying attention to the appeals of other drivers and pedestrians.
The shocking scene was filmed by an anonymous driver: The military police officers responsible for dragging Silva Ferreira, Sub-lieutenant Adir Serrano Machado, Sub-lieutenant Rodney Miguel Archanjo, and Sergeant Alex Sandro da Silva Alves, were arrested the following day.
But they were released on March 20 on the request of prosecutor Paulo Roberto Cunha, who declared, "If she presented vital signs, there would be the crime of bodily harm.
But, if she was dead , they did not commit any crime."
The police officers are awaiting judgment while released on bail.
Protest in homage to Claudia Silva Ferreira and against police violence on March 17 in Madureira in the north zone of Rio de Janeiro.
Photo by Organização Anarquista Terra e Liberdade OATL (Anarchist Organization for Land and Liberty), free use.
Journalist Monica Waldvogel noted on her Twitter that Sub-lieutenant Adir Serrano has been involved in at least 63 deaths.
Sub-lieutenant Rodney Archango has been involved in six deaths.
According to Thais Lima, Silva Ferreira's daughter, the police officers laughed while putting her body in the car.
Professor Eduardo Sterzi posted on his Facebook the anonymous testimony of a resident who was present when Silva Ferreira was killed and of another resident who had just died as well:
(...) was killed after he had already been shot and had fallen.
He had a backpack with drugs, but three pistols were planted on him so that it could be said there was a confrontation, in addition to the other three backpacks that were also planted.
They arrived shooting at everything and everyone, and that's why the woman died.
According to Silva Ferreira's husband Alexandre da Silva and his brother Julio Ferreira, Silva Ferreira was allegedly shot by the same police officer who planted four weapons on the scene of the crime, when, according to them, she was only carrying a package of coffee and six Brazilian reals (2.65 US dollars) to buy food for her children.
About this fact, activist Camila Pavanelli commented on Facebook:
The lie is the assumption that we should accept whatever declaration we hear from the military police.
But they don't even confirm these assumptions all the time.
In the case of Claudia and her four weapons, were they not trying to lie to cover up the crime (in the end, who would be capable of believing this version?).
Saying that Claudia had four weapons is nothing more than extending the torture of her family.
Photo posted by the profile Anonymous Rio on Facebook.
Free use.
People on social media compared the case of Silva Ferreira to that of young boy João Hélio. Federal Deputy of the PSOL (the Socialism and Freedom Party) Chico Alencar noted on his Facebook:
February 2007.
Three young men carjack a vehicle in neighborhood of Oswaldo Cruz, a suburb of Rio.
One holds a firearm in his hand.
Inside the car, a small boy, João Hélio, his 13-year-old sister and his mother.
It was one of the most terrible and shocking crimes that Brazil has ever witnessed.
João Hélio was buckled into his seatbelt, outside the car, and was DRAGGED by the robbers for about seven kilometers.
His body was completely disfigured.
Until today, for many, to remember and write about this is a task that causes goosebumps and brings tears to the eyes.
The case was also compared to that of Amarildo, a stone worker who was tortured, killed, and his body "disappeared" by the military police in the favela Rocinha, also in Rio de Janeiro, in July 2013.
The memory of João Hélio sparked even more outcry given that mainstream media, instead of using Silva Ferreira's full name, called her the "woman who was dragged", among other variations.
Activist Niara Oliveira questioned this on Twitter: "Why is that today we remember the name of the boy that was dragged from a car robbed by criminals?
BECAUSE THE PRESS REPEATED HIS NAME TO EXHAUSTION," and commented:
Because when a life is important, there is a name, an identity, a story.
WE WILL ALWAYS REPEAT: Claudia da Silva Ferreira, worker, mother of 4 children.
Collection of news headlines on the death of Claudia Silva Ferreira collected by activist Ana Silva. She wrote: "THE POLICE MURDER, AND THE MEDIA IS CYNICAL AND PERVERSE.
Woman, woman, woman, resident, resident, resident, dead, dead, dragged, dragged, dragged, dragged.
Daughter of the dragged, burial of the dragged, widower of the woman, the woman who was dragged.
It is all like this: without a name, without an identity, WITHOUT HUMANITY.
JUST ANOTHER STATISTIC."
Activist Thiago Paiva added to the discussion in a series of tweets:
For what reason is it that a victim of the middle/upper class has a name and a last name?
Thinking on what I said this morning.
Boy dragged by a car.
Complete stereotype of the ~middle class~- name, last name, series of reports.
A woman dragged by a car, poor, doesn't have the "potential" to be a muse that creates a cause.. it's just "woman who was dragged."
The tone was that of despair amongst many activists and users of Facebook and Twitter. Activist Rodrigo Cardia wrote that the case "probably would soon be forgotten because the victim was black and poor - like many other people who are killed daily by the military police throughout Brazil."
Professor Idelber Avelar questioned what will happen to the "uniformed criminals":
Nothing.
Nothing is going to happen.
They won't be tried, and in the remotest possibility of what could be, they will be acquitted.
And the Brazilian political system continues to be incapable of presenting even minimally decent solutions for the existence of criminal organizations of this type, apparatus of torture and death, uniformed, which act with the blessing of the state and contrary to the law.
Journalist Bruno Torturra tweeted:
The impunity of the police transformed their prerogative.
They went from having a legal monopoly on violence to having a legal monopoly on illegality.
The case brought back to the surface the debate for the end of the military police and its demilitarization, as pleaded for by the collective Rio na Rua: Today's victim was a woman, black and poor, a resident of a favela situated in a lower-middle class neighborhood of Rio de Janeiro.
Who will shout for Claudia?
Who will know her name aside from her family and the people of her community?
Who will rise up against the uniformed criminals, agents of the state?
Who will ask that these agents be held responsible?
Why is this outcry in the face of this brutality perpetrated by public agents so little?
Amanda Vieira wrote in a piece titled "Claudia Silva Ferreira: shot, dragged, and killed by the military police.
Until when?" on the blog "FemMaterna":
For the great majority of newspapers, a woman died.
For us, Claudia Silva Ferreira died, a person that had an identity, a story, a name worthy of being mentioned in newspaper headlines.
She had a life worthy of being preserved, as much as anyone else in this country that, at least officially, does not accept the death penalty.
Activist Fabiano Camilo reflected in "'The woman who was dragged'- violated bodies and the naturalization of the police violence":
Police violence, which in Brazilian society has acquired a sense of habit, is starting to become naturalized and tacitly justified, the reason for which does not surprise us and does not repulse us, directed above all against the bodies that our culture identifies as acceptable of being violated: indigenous bodies, black bodies, poor bodies, or miserable bodies, feminine bodies, transgender bodies, non-heterosexual bodies.
Nevertheless, these aren't the only bodies that can be violated by the military police.
Civil police officer Lucas Ed summarized on Facebook the feelings of many:
Claudia didn't deserve it, her husband didn't deserve it, nor her kids, nor her nieces and nephews that she cared for.
The people of Rio didn't deserve to see this, nor the Brazilian people, nor any human being.
What a sad thing to happen.
Ariel view of the poster.
From the #NotABugSplat campaign website. Photo meant for press use.
With the help of locals, an artists collective associated with an anti-drone campaign, installed a massive poster of a drone survivor in the fields of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, a province that borders Waziristan, the tribal areas where US predator drones have been hovering over since 2004.
The initiative aims to give civilian casualties in US drones attacks a human face.
According to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, since 2004, more than 380 drones have targeted Pakistan, killing at least 3500 people, 200 of whom were children.
The US drone campaign aims to eliminate Taliban strongholds in Pakistan.
The previous Pakistani government openly condemned US drone attacks but Wiki-leaks exposed that they privately approved the strikes.
In May 2013, a Pakistani court ruled that CIA drone strikes in Pakistan were illegal.
The image above has been shared widely on Twitter with the hashtag #NotABugSplat, which is the campaign's name.
From their website:
In military slang, Predator drone operators often refer to kills as ‘bug splats’, since viewing the body through a grainy video image gives the sense of an insect being crushed.
To challenge this insensitivity as well as raise awareness of civilian casualties, an artist collective installed a massive portrait facing up in the heavily bombed Khyber Pukhtoonkhwa region of Pakistan, where drone attacks regularly occur.
Now, when viewed by a drone camera, what an operator sees on his screen is not an anonymous dot on the landscape, but an innocent child victim’s face. Setting up the poster.
From the #NotABugSplat campaign website.
Photo meant for press use.
The website says the child "in the poster is nameless."
The Foundation for Fundamental Rights, one of the Pakistani non-profits associated with the campaign, says she lost both her parents and two younger siblings in a drone attack.
But a Twitter user seems to have matched the girl's face to a photo of drone victims from 2009:
Think this is original of the photo used in Pakistan's #NotABugSplat campaign against drones http://t.co/ui2t2KVrUo pic.twitter.com/ATuhiYYwLL — David Steven (@davidsteven) April 6, 2014
Zahra Ahmer comments on the campaign's website:
This is a beautiful post and the girl in the photo is so innocent, so pure and the way these drones have harmed her…its scary for me to these read comments which express empathy for the children but say using these machines is necessary.
I mean, it is so ingrained in your brains that this is the ONLY means to fight the Taliban.
Do you actually think so?
Do you actually think that with all our technology and all our creativity, this is all we can come up with?
It might be the easiest.
But really, the only one?
Well, I’d like to ask, would you like a government to hunt down criminals in this way among you?
Especially a foreign government?
Any way of hunting down terrorists in a way that puts innocent people’s lives at risk should not be used.
Instead a better method should be thought about and brought to actuality.
It might be easier for you to accept this girl’s fate, living comfortably in your homes, but actually for a moment try to imagine her reality and her memories and the environment she will be living in.
And please, really think about it and then say, drones are necessary.
Villagers with the poster. From the #NotABugSplat campaign website.
Photo meant for press use.
John Uebersax writes:
This is an excellent idea.
Opposing military aggression with anger and hatred fuels continued aggression.
It is better to appeal to conscience, so that the aggressor wakes up and realizes “What we are doing is wrong.”
Drone advocates argue that precision strikes like drones lead to less casualties.
But there is debate regarding the number of civilian and militant casualties from these attacks.
Since the US defines all military age men as "enemy combatants" their number of casualties, vary largely from independent organizations documenting drone deaths.
According to Amnesty International a number of drone victims were unarmed and that some strikes could amount to war crimes.
An International Crisis Group report concluded that "drone strikes were an "ineffective" way of combating militants in Pakistan".
There have been no drone attacks in Pakistan the last 100 days; this is the longest break since 2011.
The Washington Post reported that the US cut back on drone strikes after the Pakistani government asked for restraint while it seeks peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban.
5 Traditional Recipes From Across the Francophone World · Global Voices
The season of Carnival and Mardi Gras means delicious foods are on the menu around the world.
To whet your appetite, we present here some recipes for characteristic dishes from different French-speaking areas, all proud representatives of French culinary heritage.
Bon appétit!
Ivory Coast: Alloco
Alloco is a traditional dish in West and Central Africa.
It's made of plantains fried in peanut or palm oil, and is served as a snack or to accompany a main dish.
Alloco originated in open-air restaurants, also called "allocodrome" by Ivorians, which sell classic Ivorian dishes like attiéké and poulet braisé (braised chicken) at low prices.
Alloco: sliced and fried plantains (accompanied here by fried fish).
Via Wikimedia Commons
The blog Recettes africains (African Recipes) shared a recipe for a a spicy personal topping for alloco:
Crush the chiles with the onion and the garlic. You can use a blender or a mortar.
Mix with the tomato paste, half a cube of stock and water.
Heat the oil a little bit and add the chile mixture.
Let it cook for 15 minutes on low heat.
Add salt and pepper to taste, and add a little lemon juice if you want.
(I love it that way!)
Now serve your alloco with your spicy, delicious topping.
You can also serve it with attieké.
Louisiana (USA): Jambalaya/Crawfish gumbo
The term "jambalaya" encompasses many different versions of this classic dish, which can vary depending on the choice of meat and the preparation of the rice base.
But authentic jambalaya is always very spicy. Creole jambalaya is the signature dish of the state of Louisiana, and is particularly associated with the city of New Orleans.
One typical version is crawfish gumbo.
France: Coq au vin
(20 min).
Brown the shrimp with the garlic and onion in a little olive oil.
Add salt and pepper (10 min).
Strain the cooked okra, and pour onto the shrimp (5 min).
Serve alone or with rice and hot peppers.
Madagascar: Ravitoto
Ravitoto is a traditional Malagasy dish.
The principal ingredient is the leaves of the sweet cassava plant, which are ground in a mortar and mixed with onions and pork.
Jenny M. in Antananarivo paid homage to this "canonical" Malagasy dish with her personal recipe:
#1: Cook the pork with a little water.
#2: In a big pot, heat the oil with the onions, garlic and meat.
Once the meat is brown, add the crushed leaves, the ginger and the Kub'Or with a cup of water. #3.
Let stew for 30 minutes, then for the last step, take off the cover and let the stew reduce a little (5 to 10 minutes).
Ravitoto via Dodovanille
Morocco: Tajine
Tajine is a traditional stew with a composition that varies depending on the chef's mood or what's available at the market.
Every Moroccan cook has his or her own personal version, but tajine always is a meat or fish stew with vegetables or dried fruit.
The blog La Cuisine Marocaine presents a recipe for a lamb tajine with white truffles:
If you're using fresh truffles, rinse them thoroughly in cold water to clean off any dirt.
Skin them and put them down slowly and carefully in a large bowl of water.
Depending on their size, cut them or leave them whole. Then, cook them in boiling water with a little salt for about 15 minutes or until they become tender.
Dry them well in a strainer.
Cut the lamb shoulder into small pieces.
Peel the garlic and cut it into slivers.
Cook the lamb in a pot with olive oil on medium heat until brown.
After five minutes, add 40 centiliters of water, garlic, turmeric, salt, and pepper.
Cover and let simmer on low heat for about an hour.
Add the truffles to the pot about 10 minutes before finishing.
Coq au vin, or rooster in wine, is a French culinary classic.
Oenologie perwez narrates the legendary history of the dish:
An Arvernian tribe was besieged by the Romans.
The chef, in order to mock the Romans, sent them a skinny but aggressive rooster as an emblem of the Gauls' determination despite the odds.
During a truce, the Roman general—Julius Caesar—invited the Arvernian chef to a meal, at which the main course was a delicious poultry dish in a thick red sauce.
Enjoying the dish greatly, the Gaul asked Caesar what it was.
Caesar responded that it was the rooster, marinated in wine and cooked slowly... Coq au vin via Wikimedia Commons
Taiwan’s Indigenous Oppose Trade Deal With China · Global Voices
The indigenous people used the smoke signal to warn their people and all of society against the trade agreement with China.
Photo from coolloud.org.
CC:NC.
Those occupying Taiwan's legislature over the controversial Cross-Strait Service and Trade Agreement (CSSTA) between the island and China fear that allowing mainland capital to flow unrestricted into Taiwan will threaten Taiwanese culture, freedom of expression and national security.
The indigenous people of Taiwan worry in particular that the trade agreement will lead to the destruction of their ancestral land and the suppression of their languages, among other consequences, and members have participated in the protests.
A platform for discussing indigenous people-related issues, Pure-taiwan.info, explained how the agreement will affect the life of the indigenous people in Taiwan.
One of the specific concerns involves the tourism sector.
Given the exodus of young people from indigenous areas, leaving an aging population behind, the indigenous people will be forced to depend on tourism for their economy to survive.
But with the agreement opening the door to "China-style tourism", mainland businesses will monopolize the sector for maximum profit, according to the site.
Meanwhile, the indigenous will be left with the costs of conserving the environment and putting on displays of tradition and culture.
When Chinese corporations enter Taiwan in the tourist sector, they need the land to build hotels and other buildings for touristic services.
This will bring serious threats to our ancestors' land.
The dominance of Mandarin that the agreement represents is also worrying, according to the platform:
Once the CSSTA is passed, Mandarin will be more dominant than it is today.
Language is not only a tool for communication.
Language is a symbol of the social-economic status and the culture hegemony.
The domination of Mandarin and the dominant culture created by this language will threaten our identity built on our tradition and culture.
In addition, this dominant power will also threaten our effort to maintain the legacy of the Austronesian languages in Taiwan.
Coolloud.org, an independent online media focusing on civil society news, also reported a statement from one of the protesting indigenous people about the change Chinese tourists have brought to the tourism industry in Taiwan:
The current Magistrate of Hualien County, Fu Kung-Chi, has already started to prepare a budget for us to hold our ceremonies to serve tourists.
The Indigenous Peoples Action Coalition of Taiwan (IPACT) criticized that the Council of Indigenous Peoples and the legislators representing the indigenous people did not pay enough attention to the agreement's possible impact on the indigenous people' rights:
The Institute for Aboriginal Policy had expressed their concerns since last October when some indigenous people attended a public hearing.
Although the Institute for Aboriginal Policy requested that the Council of Indigenous Peoples and the legislators representing the indigenous people to explain and communicate with the indigenous people, they did not give us any positive response yet.
Moreover, they accused those who were concerned of spreading rumors or even breaking the law.
The Council of Indigenous Peoples is an official institute to represent the indigenous people, so they should represent us and protect our rights and integrity when they make policies and related measures.
To evoke more discussion among indigenous peoples, several young Amis, the largest indigenous group in Taiwan, made a video introducing the CSSTA and explaining the protest to their friends and family.
Ayal Komod, an Amis musician and actor, also appealed to indigenous people for solidarity:
The demand made by the students who occupied the Legislative Yuan is closely related to our future.
We need to strengthen our bond so that we can generate our power together.
If we do not have enough power, how can we pursue a better future and provide for our people?
Are Economic Sanctions Effective Against Rogue Rulers? · Global Voices
Since Russia's military intervention in Crimea, economic sanctions have been threatened as a means of penalizing Vladimir Putin's government.
The White House has already announced travel bans and asset freezes for several individuals close to the Kremlin, and the European Union is examining similar sanctions.
Yet it is difficult to determine the effectiveness of such sanctions.
The African continent is already familiar with the imposition of economic sanctions on countries that do not respect the rule of law.
For example, the Central African Republic, Mali, Mauritania, and Madagascar were hit with sanctions in recent years after power was seized in coups d'état.
These countries then faced major difficulties in emerging from the political impasse and resuming international cooperation.
But did these economic sanctions influence their return to constitutional rule?
Christian Chavagneux, deputy editor in chief of Alternatives Economiques, recalls why it is difficult to apply effective economic sanctions:
The lessons of history cast doubt on the efficacy of economic sanctions.
Let us remember that the military boycott of apartheid South Africa never stopped the country from buying weapons, that the divestment campaigns and consumer product boycotts didn't cause the collapse of the ruling class, and that the big banks are, in large part, still present.
The case of Madagascar
Madagascar was hit with economic sanctions immediately after Andry Rajoelina seized power in March 2009 with the support of part of the army.
After the suspension of trade agreements with the United States via the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) and the suspension of aid from the European Commission and various other development agencies, the country's GDP fell rapidly, reaching its lowest level since 2002:
GDP of Madagascar between 2001 and 2011. Public domain
Learning of the AGOA's withdrawal, economist William Easterly argued at the time that the sanctions did not penalize the leaders responsible for the situation, but rather the already fragile population:
The US pulled the plug on AGOA at the end of December and import duties of up to 34 percent were reintroduced.
Now we are starting to see the effects in the formal and informal economy:
Factories closing and factory jobs lost Increased competition among street traders now that former factory workers are pushed out to sell goods in overly crowded street markets Knock-on effects in neighboring countries (Mauritius, Swaziland, Lesotho, South Africa) which made inputs like zippers to Madagascar’s factories.
Among the effects we are NOT seeing: signs of increased interest in arriving at a power-sharing agreement or instating democratic governance on the part of Rajoelina’s government.
The ensuing chain of events would prove Easterly right.
Madagascar plunged into a deep economic crisis, while those responsible for the political crisis were unaffected, remaining in power for five years after the coup d'état.
New 4X4s proliferate in certain towns, inhabited by a small wealthy minority, while the majority of the population rapidly grows poorer.
In 2013, 90 percent of Madagascans were living on less than two US dollars per day.
Economic sanctions and military intervention in Mali
After Captain Amadou Sanogo and his troops took power in 2012, the international community immediately announced sanctions and withdrew its development aid in Mali.
But the situation rapidly worsened as rebel groups fought for independence for Northern Mali and international military intervention began, led by France.
Food being distributed to Malian refugees. Photo via Wikimedia Commons CC-BY-NC
The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Malian minister for humanitarian action issued a final report on the impacts of the crisis.
The report was unambiguous on the negative impact of the sanctions on the country's economy and its dependence on development aid: The economic sanctions include two elements: the suspension of development aid by the technical and financial partners, and the economic embargo imposed by the Economic Community of West African States:
The consequences of these events have been revealed through the following conditions:
- the suspension of cooperation with partners;
- the decline in activity (investment, production, bank, commercial, import/export, inflation);
- the decline in the population's buying power through the increase in the consumer price index, and the loss of confidence of economic agents (uncertainties);
- the decline in budgetary revenues (budget revisions, etc.);
- the decline in spending on social sectors (the Strategic Framework for Growth and Poverty Reduction and the Millennium Development Goals, etc.). One of the key lessons of the political and security crisis lies in Mali's great dependence on its foreign relations.
Once again, the imposed sanctions penalized the already fragile local population.
These sanctions did not result in a return to good government, as external military intervention was necessary to stabilize the country.
It appears that the international community has learned from these events. The recently proposed sanctions against Russia seem more targeted towards the leaders at fault.
However, unanswered questions remain regarding the reasons that motivate the imposition of sanctions on certain countries.
The economic interests of countries seem to be significant factors in the way these decisions are approached by the international community.
'Trash Selfies' for a Clean Tunisia · Global Voices
A number of Tunisians have recently been taking selfies while posing near trash before publishing them on social-networking sites via the hash tag #SelfiePoubella ('trash selfie') to denounce the piles of trash that fill the country's streets.
The move came in reaction to a number of selfies and pictures posted on social media by the minister of tourism Amel Karboul to promote tourism to the northern-most African country.
On May 16, the admins of the Facebook page 'Clean Tunisia' urged users to upload their selfies:
We are waiting for your selfies to show the grave situation in our streets and everywhere in the country...They are seeking to hide the sad reality in our neighborhoods with postcards of the beautiful landscapes of Tunisia and forget that there are people living in trash...
In an another message posted on May 19, they said:
If Karboul's selfies are generally justified by the good touristic cause, the campaign Selfie Poubella is of a touristic as well as a civic interest since it simply calls for clearing the cities of Tunisia of the garbage that litter its streets.
The principle is very simple with the aim that the Tunisian citizen as well as the tourist benefits from a clean public space.
Let's show this country's officials the real face of our streets and the pollution of the environment.
Last April, the government estimated the piles of trash accumulated in the streets at 300 thousand tons blaming "broken" trash collection equipment and an increase in the number of sick leaves taken by trash workers.
Despite multiple cleanliness campaigns launched by the authorities and civil society groups in different regions of the country, trash continues to pile up.
Cooking Under Siege in Homs, Syria · Global Voices
This post was previously published on Syria Untold.
Homsi hamburgers, besieged sweets, tenacious pizza… This is how the people of Homs are referring to their meals these days, 24 months into a siege that has forced them to eat whatever they can find.
From the grass that grows on the roadside to turtles, birds and insects, Homsis have taken their renowned creativity and lightheartedness to another level.
Traditional Syrian manaqish, cooked in the besieged city of Homs.
Source: Meals Under Siege Facebook page
Meals under the siege
On April 2014, a Facebook page was created under the name “Meals under the siege”, as a discussion forum on how to deal with the regime’s attempts to starve the population into submission.
Flour, rice, wheat, and all basic products traditionally present in every Syrian kitchen, were blocked for hundreds of thousands of residents in the besieged areas.
In anticipation of the siege, some residents had stored some basic products, but they are quickly running out of them as well.
“They say necessity is the mother of invention,” a man living in the old city of Homs said to Syria Untold.
“So here we are, trying to make manaqish with whatever we can find, including these seeds that we found but we can’t seem to agree on whether they are spices or henna”.
“Anyway, you put a pinch of salt, and... it’s edible!”, he adds.
Necessity has also pushed the residents of besieged areas into eating whatever source of protein they could find.
This includes turtles, birds and insects, which have never been part of the Syrian gastronomy.
A stew made of figs and medlar.
Source: Meals Under Siege Facebook page
“You boil the turtle meat, and then add a side of medler and figs, or prepare it as a soup.
Actually, turtle meat is very good given the circumstances.”
The expertise that Homsis have acquired in the field of creative cooking under siege has turned out to be useful for residents of other areas facing similar situations.
The meals prepared are photographed and shared on Facebook on a daily basis, so that others can take inspiration and use the scarce ingredients at their disposal.
True to their renowned sense of humor, residents of Homs reflect on their situation with comments such as “I just prepared this bird that was so small that I’m not sure if it was an animal or a spice”, and “A friend just told me that his grapevine has talked to him and says the leafs are scared to come out, after seeing what happened to its neighbors.”
Overcoming every barrier
To an outside observer, the psychological barrier that needs to be broken in order to eat something one never thought could be eaten seems hard to overcome.
But Syrians under siege are far past that point. “When you are hungry, there is no psychological barrier regarding anything that can be eaten.”
Creativity and wit are helping the people under siege to resist the policy of starvation that the regime is imposing on them.
But even the scarce ingredients they have managed to find are running out.
When asked about this, our source answers:
“We really can’t think beyond the present.
What will happen tomorrow, we don’t know, but we have noticed that whenever we think there are no resources left, we find something else that can be eaten.
We hope that God will continue to provide.”
Meal made of grasshoppers.
Along the same line, the Facebook page where the meals are posted includes comments which highlight the fact that “a human being can be happy even in the most adverse circumstances.
What matters is that he is at peace with himself, and with God.”
From the first demonstration that took hundreds to the streets in March 2011, until today, the people of Homs continue to teach the world the meaning of dignity, resistance and creativity in the face of adversity. This post was previously published on Syria Untold.
Stealthily but Publicly, Iranian Women Remove Their Veils Online · Global Voices
A photo from the Facebook page My Stealthy Freedom.
The caption says: "I experienced this freedom in my country for a few minutes, after 33 years.
Persian Gulf.
I will still be a woman even if you cover me with scarves and Chadors.
What are you going to do with my eyes?!
They are full of love and life."
Forced for decades to wear headscarves or face arrest, thousands of Iranian women are now taking a chance on the internet and sharing photos of themselves unveiled and in public as an act of defiance.
An online campaign called “Stealthy Freedoms of Iranian Women” has gone viral since Iranian journalist Masih Alinejad launched a Facebook page on May 3.
The page has more than 303,000 followers and features hundreds of pictures of unveiled women — in the school yard, at the beach, on the streets, and in different historic locations of Iran. Across social media, photos are shared with the hashtags #mystealthyfreedom or #آزادی‌یواشکی in Persian.
A photo shared on My Stealthy Freedom Facebook page.One woman shares a photo and a personal experience on the campaign's Facebook page:
We were on Nowruz holidays (The Persian New Year).
We had set off for Abadan.
I could not bear the heat and removed my headscarf subconsciously.
Well, and taking photos is an inseparable part of traveling.
What gave me even more joy than the cool breeze blowing through my hair, was the sound of rhythmic horns blown by the cars passing by (as to encourage her) and the happy excited faces of my companions.
Although the campaign has been welcomed by a huge number of Iranian activists, some have also criticized it.
Some believe the mandatory hijab should not be the primary political concern of Iranian women, and yet others have problems with the term “stealthy”.
Jila Baniyaghoub, an Iranian journalist who lives in Iran writes, “When something is stealthy, it cannot be called freedom anymore.
If we were supposed to be happy by our stealthy freedom, nobody would pursue the freedom.”
Besides creating a big debate among Iranians in the virtual world, the campaign has also created a buzz in the foreign media with countless new stories about the campaign and oppression of women in Iran.
44,000 Malagasy Children Die Every Year for Lack of Care. How Can We Stop It? · Global Voices
Madagascan children by Yves Picq - CC-BY-SA-3.0
In Madagascar, 44,000 children under the age of five die each year, according to the latest UNICEF figures.
That number is the same as the population of all children five and under in the entire Alpes-de-Haute-Provence region of France.
It’s also the number of victims in the 9/11 terrorist attacks, 15 times over.
The tragedy behind the number - losing a child - most often affects families of limited means.
Two groups in Madagascar are particularly vulnerable in terms of public health: children younger than five, and pregnant women.
According to the World Bank, half of all children under five experience delayed growth, "a larger proportion than in any other country in Africa."
The maternal mortality rate is estimated at approximately 498 per 100,000 live births, and the causes of death are many, including limited access to skilled staff during delivery, poor prenatal care, and lack of emergency care.
The health record is appalling, yet there is no shortage of initiatives to change the situation.
In Toliara in southern Madagascar, a school lunch project is helping to fight the problems of chronic malnutrition.
The organization Les Enfants du Soleil (Children of the Sun) houses and educates street children and children from needy families.
The children also receive a noontime meal in the school cafeteria.
Take a look at photos of children who benefit in this French-language YouTube video:
Other programs target specific problems such as sickle-cell anemia or malaria.
The organization LCDMF (the initials stand for Fight Against Sickle-Cell Anemia in Madagascar) works to make the population more aware of this genetic disease affecting 2 percent of the Madagascan people.
In the following video, the team leaders of LCDMF describe the past activities of the NGO and its objectives for the next three years.
Two of their objectives for the upcoming years are to give better access to antibiotics for sickle-cell anemia patients and to convince Malagasy political leaders that sickle-cell anemia ought to be included in the nation's public health priorities:
In an open letter to Prime Minister Malgache Kolo Roger, LCDMF stressed the importance of treating this problem, especially in isolated regions without modern health facilities:
This is a critical public health problem that has a dramatic impact on the neediest inhabitants in a region with nearly a 20 percent disease rate and where one out of five children with major sickle-cell anemia is not likely to survive past the age of five.
The problem can no longer be handled with half measures.
Because sickle-cell anemia is cross-disciplinary and involves all medical specialties, this disease alone illustrates how essential it is for you to immediately take stock of the healthcare situation in our backyard.
Much remains to be done
Another area with a pressing need for action is maternal health, due to rapid population growth in Madagascar.
For example, one out of five married women who wishes to space out or limit pregnancies has no access to family planning services (19 percent), and the abortion rate is estimated at one out of every 10 live births, according to the Madagascar National Institute of Statistics (INSAT) and the United Nations Fund for Population (UNFPA).
Despite these efforts, Madagascar is faced with certain weaknesses that hinder improvement in health indicators.
The source of poor and uneven health outcomes lies in the disparities in household incomes and physical access to health services.
Consequently, nearly one in four people (23 percent) with an illness did not seek care at a health center because they could not pay for it.
Availability of medication is also a real problem because the systematic failures in drug management and inventory tracking as well as distribution logistics hamper proper distribution of medications.
As a result, the wealthy use health services four times more often than the poor: 40.9 percent of total expenses in this sector were attributed to the wealthiest fifth, whereas 10.1 percent were paid by the poorest fifth, according to the World Bank.
Strengthen nutrition programs targeting the most vulnerable groups, and their access to adequate nutrition; Enhance efficiency of budgetary expenses; Improve management of healthcare human resources; Introduce risk-free delivery kits; Bring doctors back to health centers in rural areas.
The situation is dire but not desperate, at least not yet.
The proposed policies can be readily implemented if given the political will.
The Malagasy children have waited 50 years for their collective health to be at the top of the national agenda.
It is high time authorities are reminded that no respectable country would tolerate the obliteration of its future in such a manner, 44,000 times a year.
Brazil or Argentina?
Football Rivalries Play Out Thousands of Miles Away From the World Cup in Bangladesh · Global Voices
Football fever spreads in Bangladesh.
Playing football in front of a wall colored with different national flags of the participants in the FIFA World Cup.
Jatrabari, Dhaka.
Image by Sourav Lasker.
Copyright Demotix (8/6/2014)
The FIFA World Cup 2014 is about to begin in Brazil on June 12 and 'World Cup fever' has gripped Bangladesh, like it does, every four years.
Nothing can dampen the South Asian country's passion for football, not even their consistently low FIFA ranking - this year it is 167.
Bangladeshis may not get the opportunity to celebrate their home team during the World Cup championships, but they do religiously follow and passionately cheer for their favourite international teams.
Most Bangladeshis are staunch supporters of either Brazil or Argentina.
This football rivalry grips every Bangladeshi fan.
Ahmad-Musa writes on the Somewhereinblog:
The Football war will start in Sao Paulo on 12 June.
All of Bangladesh will essentially be divided into two camps - Brazil and Argentina.
This show of support will be reflected in every home.
Every neighbourhood is rife with competitive spirit about who is able to hoist the team flag before others.
There are ongoing, heated debates over endless cups of tea about who is hoisting the largest flag, whose team holds more supporters etc.
Traders are out to make some quick money as the sale of jerseys of various countries soar ahead of the FIFA World Cup in Brazil.
Image by Md.
Manik.
Copyright Demotix (5/6/2014)
Everyone is wearing their team loyalties on their sleeve, especially on social media.
Marina Chawdhury (@M_e_R_i_n_a) tweeted in a lighter vein that (unlike others) she did not quarrel over football:
I’m a Brazil supporter, and I am a peace-loving person.
I don't quarrel with the supporters of others teams.
Tailors sew Brazil and Argentina flags at a shop in Dhaka ahead of the World Cup.
Image by Rohit Rajib.
Copyright Demotix (21/5/2014)
Sale of flags of the competing nations rise to an all-time high during the World Cup season.
Supporters and fans can be seen flying flags of their favorite teams from their houses, a phenomenon that caused Blogger Sobak Pakhi to comment:
The government can earn some money by imposing tax on waving of Brazil-Argentina flags.
Ashiqur Rahman Rean wrote on Facebook:
Neymar and Messi should get their "revenue share" from the flag sales in Bangladesh during World Cup: they would go mad if they know the sales number here.
Nillufar Sharmin Jessy comments on the ubiquitous display of flags of playing nations, on almost every building and vehicles plying the roads:
World CUP Mania at Bangladesh. People waving flag on their building or transport.#LOVEFOOTBALL.@WorldCupPosts pic.twitter.com/sXl5tV7HfR — Nilufar SharminJessy (@NilufarSharmin) June 1, 2014 Interestingly, though Bangladesh will not be playing in the World Cup, seven International teams will playing wearing jerseys made in Bangladesh.
Zubayer Aziz is proud of this. He tweeted: 'Brazil's jersey for the world cup will be made in Bangladesh and will proudly say so on the tag.' #MadeInBangladesh — Zubes (@ZubayerAziz) May 30, 2014
Blogger and educator, Ragib Hasan, raised a question on Facebook:
Amidst this ubiquitous presence of the flags of Brazil and Argentina, where is our Bangladeshi flag?
According to Bangladesh flag law, you can fly a foreign flag only when you also fly your national flag, which must be flying in all its glory, at a higher level.
Craze and fun around sports (and football) is fine.
It is a part of our lives, a tonic for our daily living.
But while doing so, we must remember to respect and honour our own national flag.
We must not forget that we achieved our flag through the sacrifices of our martyrs, and it was their blood, their sacrifice that won us this flag - not any Brazilian or Argentinian blood.
So,go ahead, fly the flag of your favourite team and enjoy yourself but alongside, let our national flag fly higher, as a symbol of our national pride, joys and sorrows.
Lullabies of the World: What's Your Favorite? · Global Voices
A newborn baby sleeps in a hospitals in Southern Luzon, Philippines (2009).
Photo Oliver Belarga – CC BY-NC-ND 2.0
This story by April Peavy for The World originally appeared on PRI.org on April 7, 2014 and is republished on Global Voices as part of a content sharing agreement.
New parents everywhere face a common problem: getting their babies to sleep.
And there's a common solution: a lullaby.
Listen to this story on PRI.org » But it turns out lullabies don't just help babies relax, they help adults, as well, explains author Kathy Henderson, who collected lullabies from across the globe for her children's book, Hush, Baby, Hush.
She says lullabies help parents "deal with the situation in which they are being wound up by a child, or they are failing to get them to sleep, or they are feeling really, really tired themselves."
The title of Henderson's book comes from a Jamaican lullaby called "Hush Baby Hush," with a version recorded by The Kitchen Sisters.
The author says lullabies share certain traits.
They almost always have both music and words.
The music has to have a "soothing rhythm" and a rather narrow musical range.
But the lyrics, she says, can be about anything — and cover a wide spectrum of human emotion and mood.
There are lullabies about anger, frustration, and humor.
Henderson points out there are lullabies about "food, families, monsters, children being naughty" and many other things.
Lullabies are also sung in all sorts of situations, not just when a baby is in bed.
For example, mothers sometimes sing them while they work, so their children will settle down and let them keep on working.
Henderson reckons the oldest lullaby is from well before the common era and says researchers have found lullabies in the oldest-known literature.
PRI is collecting and sharing favorite lullabies from around the world in our new app, The World's Lullabies.
Have a listen and tell us which you like.
Want to share your favorite?
You can upload a recording or a video — or simply click a button and sing into your mobile device or computer.
April Peavey is studio director and producer for PRI's The World.
Discover and submit lullabies at PRI.org
Syrian Man Turns Artillery into Art · Global Voices
This post was previously published on SyriaUntold.
Syrian artist Ali Abu al-Fawz decorates a rocket shell in Douma, Damascus.
Source: Abu al-Fawz's facebook page.
Turning artillery into art.
That is the work of Douma-based artist Akram Abu al-Fawz, who collects missile and rocket shells and transforms them into a wide array of art objects and ornaments.
Abu al-Fawz, known in his community as Mohammad Douma, has been forced to move from house to house after his home was burned by Syrian regime troops.
The 35-year-old father of three believes that his work is no less important that the battles on the ground.
“Weapons will not be enough to get rid of the slavery we have lived in," he explained in an interview with SyriaUntold.
“We also need art, culture and civilization to weave our freedom."
A girl sits on a rocket shell decorated by Abu al-Fawz.
Source: The artist's Facebook page
The city of Douma, located in the outskirts of Damascus, has become one of the most punished, yet resilient areas since the beginning of the popular uprising in March, 2011.
First home to large peaceful demonstrations and gradually turned into an open war zone, it is also known for its restless artistic and creative contributions.
Just like Abu Ali al-Bitar, who managed to create stoves, motorcycles, medical supplies and music instruments from rockets and bullet casings, Abu al-Fawz makes life from death.
Abu al-Fawz continues to face huge difficulties to pursue his task, from displacement to the lack of necessary tools.
He believes the effort is worth it, in the hope that these artifacts will “one day bear witness to the crimes against humanity committed in Syria."
Syrian artist Ali Abu al-Fawz works on a rocket shell in Douma, Damascus.
Source: The artist's Facebook page
This post was previously published on SyriaUntold.
The Challenges Facing Data Journalism in West Africa · Global Voices
The launch of news website FiveThirtyEight, which aims to popularise the concept of data journalism, has been an important source of interest and excitement in the world of American media.
Creator Nate Silver is an American statistician who rose to fame during the 2008 elections thanks to his accurate predictions of the presidential vote in 49 out of 50 states and the Senate vote in 35 of the races.
Explaining that data journalism is much more than election predictions, Silver wrote on the website:
It usually involved more preliminary steps in the data journalism process: collecting data, organizing data, exploring data for meaningful relationships, and so forth.
Data journalists have the potential to add value in each of these ways, just as other types of journalists can add value by gathering evidence and writing stories.
In Europe, many initiatives of this type have already been established, such as OWNI in France and The Guardian's Data Blog in the United Kingdom.
Data journalism is no longer the novelty it was a few years ago for the majority of media around the world.
Including in emerging countries, the value of data journalism is widely recognised. However, a model of practice is yet to be established.
Bertrand Pecquerie, CEO of the Global Editors Network, thinks that legal barriers are still playing an important role in the access to open data in most emerging countries:
Clearly, data journalism is at an early stage in emerging countries.
The real barrier is access to open data, and the laws are still friendlier in, , Sweden and Norway than in Nigeria or Pakistan."
On the African continent, data journalism is experiencing a surge, but faces issues such as access to and reliability of existing data.
Cheikh Fall, the founder of Sunu2012 in Senegal, and Nicolas Kayser-Bril, the co-creator of Journalism++ and leader of a data journalism training workshop in Dakar, have discussed the needs regarding reliable data there :
There's a real lack of access to data.
We have 100 people who relay information in the field and a community of a few thousand people who follow the website.
For us, it's a question of improving access to data so that someone who lives 500 kilometres from Dakar can have access to information They should be able to search for fundamental data and not have to settle for verifying statistics coming from the mouth of a politician.
Fact-checking is concerned with verifying and contesting official data.
We know that there's a data problem, so it's a question of finding new data.
Infographics about the size of the African continent - public
Nicolas Kayser-Bril discusses his vision for data journalism in the following French-language video. He explains that the goal of the data journalism projects in Africa is to develop innovative platforms that fills a concrete need for development:
Internet Sans Frontières (Internet Without Borders) was also involved in organising the same training workshop in Dakar with workshop co-creator Kayser-Bril.
The group leaders, Julie Owono and Archippe Yepmou, talk about the workshop in the following video, explaining that it is more of an exchange of know-how rather than a top-down training session:
In Cameroon, Dorothée Danedjo Fouba noted that the country is a reference model for Africa in terms of online journalism, but she highlighted that it still lacks regulation :
In Cameroon, classifying different online news platforms is becoming more and more complex because of the absence of nomenclature in the field of online journalism.
Classification proposals which have yet to be approved by legislators mean that the online press continues to be called 'cyber journalism' or 'multimedia journalism'.
But important initiatives are currently being set up in Cameroon. Gaétan IZANE, an engineer based in Douala highlighted a new project on Twitter :
Mini data journalism during the last Senate elections in Cameroon.
The presentation shown above was presented at a workshop on media journalism supported by the Goethe Institute in Cameroon.
The graph highlighted the projection of the senatorial elections by region and by political party.
Another initiative, Feowl, has provided existing data to highlight the problems of power cuts in Douala, the largest city in Cameroon.
Infographics were created using the collected data to heighten awareness of the issue:
Power cuts in Douala, Cameroon via Bantu Politics
The Feowl project wasn't able to continue due to lack of funds, underlining yet again the difficulties involved in establishing data journalism projects in West Africa.
In Ivory Coast, blogger Yoroba believed that this field will be the future of journalism:
"Will it be a profession in the future?" a journalist asked me when leaving a workshop where I had spoken on the topic.
"No," I answered, "it's a profession today." Online journalists should be aware of the online environment in which this profession is currently evolving. An environment of multiple sources.
From time to time, journalists find different versions on the same subject, both complimentary and contradictory.
This new breed of journalists must recycle, cross-check and verify their sources."
What Happens When a Muslim, Jew, Christian, Atheist and Agnostic Travel the World Together? · Global Voices
Victor, Josselin, Samuel, Ilan and Ismael are atheist, agnostic, Christian, Jewish and Muslim, in that order.
With religious tolerance in mind, the five twenty-something French students, decided to travel across the world from July 2013 to June 2014 for their Interfaith Tour.
The goal? To raise awareness of the many interfaith projects already out there making a difference.
Here's a trailer of the project:
In French-language interviews with Global Voices, the group offered details on the project and described their experiences along the way.
Global Voices (GV): After your journey around the world, you have now begun a tour of France to share your experiences.
How has the project been received in France so far?
Victor (atheist): The tour was well received in France, better than we imagined.
People in France are interested in inter-religious topics and the international component that we provided.
Many people come to see us at the end of our talk to thank us, they were moved by the work we achieved during this tour and the hope it gives them.
The impact in the media was also quite impressive.
A French daily newspaper called us to tell us that the article about our trip on their Facebook page was the most shared and commented of the past two years, ahead of articles about Barack Obama or François Hollande.
The five team members of the InterFaith Tour.
Used with permission
GV: Long trips and close quarters with others often lead to self-introspection and additional personal changes.
Has your view of your faith evolved during the trip? If so, how?
Josselin (agnostic): My faith has not changed, although it has been questioned at times.
Because of my particular belief, agnostic, within the scope of the project, people often believed that I was looking for a religion to adopt, but it was not like that at all.
The tour, in fact, strengthened my agnosticism because I believe in God, or in this case the being I call God, without seeing myself belonging to any religion or current religious practices.
After this trip, I am even more convinced that we all have the same God and that for instance, Christians and Muslims simply take different paths to reach God.
Samuel (Christian): My Christian faith is always evolving because it is a relationship.
It changes, mutates, evolves.
Traveling around the world is always an opportunity for internal change.
I have not been subjected to too much radical questioning with the exception of three months in Asia from December to February, from Mumbai to Jakarta to Tokyo, Beijing and Kuala Lumpur.
This region is a desert of Christian communities and it can be difficult not to feel alone.
These are great moments of poverty that allowed me to root my faith in the good soil, which does not require a favorable context to bear fruit.
Ilan (Jewish): The Torah says "VéAhavta IreHa KamoHa" (Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself).
This command is the foundation of life in society and it has guided me throughout the tour.
The constant back and forth between our inner-selves and others has fed my life experiences.
Through encounters with the Other, I reinforced my sense of belonging to the Jewish community, its unique history and its universal values.
The trip has definitely "converted" me to this brotherhood but I never forgot who I am and where I come from.
This dual action - self-doubt and identity reinforcement - seems fundamental to me when we project ourselves when we meet other people. This action is independent of how beautiful and rewarding the meetings with others are.
Ismael (Muslim): I am not sure if I'd say that my faith has evolved, but one thing is for sure: This trip has opened my world much more than I thought.
We often talked about inter-religious themes during this tour and during my two years as a member of the Coexist Association.
As a Muslim, I was always happy to work with people of different faiths.
However, with people in my own community, and by that I mean Muslims from other denominations than Sunnis, I was not as open and a bit suspicious.
During this tour, I had the opportunity to see how the global Muslim community was divided and how urgent it was for me to get involved in both the intra-religious and the inter-religious aspect of our work.
But I have hope that we can do better because I will always remember that day after a Friday prayer at the great mosques of Muscat in Oman when I unknowingly prayed next to an Ibadi and a Shiite by my side.
That day reinforced my belief that when we want to live together, we can always find people willing to help us in that endeavor.
Victor: I was strengthened in my vision of the world, but also in the belief that it is necessary to start a conversation not just between believers, but also with non-believers, humanists and eventually, the whole world.
In France, one-third of the population are believers, one-third are non-believers and the final one-third are agnostics.
Therefore, inter-religious conversation is our tool for social cohesion and we need to discuss with everyone.
I am reinforced in my approach to the world when I am in contact with others. This is what we call the mirror effect.
Furthermore, we have managed to identify the line between affirming our identity and being open to otherness.
This is what we call Active Coexistence and it is at the heart of the message of the COEXIST association.
Having no women in the team is not a deliberate choice, it was just something that happened and we tried as best we could to remedy this situation by inviting young women from the CoExist association of different faiths (an atheistic in Berlin, a Christian in Turkey, a Buddhist in India, a Muslim in Singapore and Jakarta). InterFaith Tour in Burkina Faso.
Which one had an important impact on you? Victor: The meeting with the Pope was obviously one of the highlights of this tour, even for the atheists or agnostics.
Meeting for 10 minutes the man with the most media coverage worldwide and the top authority in one of the largest religions is necessarily very impressive and emotional.
Meeting religious and political leaders is extremely important for us to know what they think regarding some inter-religious topics and to what extent they are willing to engage in this topic.
Still, it should also be clear that the people we really wanted to meet during this trip were common folks who nonetheless worked for years towards peace and reconciliation between communities.
GV: What region has had the most significant impact on the project?
Victor: Dozens of regions in the world have been outstanding in our opinion during this world tour, and it is not easy to choose a specific one, but Burkina Faso remains one of the most striking countries in my view.
While its neighbors such as Nigeria and Mali are experiencing religious or ethnic tensions, Burkina Faso is an exception in West Africa regarding social cohesion and togetherness.
Christians, Muslims and animists live in perfect harmony thanks to a century-old tradition of "humorous relationship".
In short, this tradition strives to create social bonds through inter-ethnic and inter-religious marriage and defusing social tensions through laughter.
People who tell ethnic jokes to one another are also linked through ethnic marriages.
In the same family in Burkina Faso, you can find several religions that coexist and live together peacefully.
Humor also means expressing stereotypes about each other vocally, to say what we think and in doing so, defuse tensions or frustrations throughout all the layers of the populations.
GV: Pope Francis brings a fairly modern vision of Catholicism. According to you, who are the religious leaders of other monotheistic religions also offering a modern vision of their faith?
Victor: The Grand Imam of Al-Azhar also provides a similar view of Islam and he urges Muslims to actively coexist with other religions.
But lesser known leaders such as the Chief Rabbi of Poland or the Maronite Patriarch of Lebanon are leading figures in inter-religious dialogue and action.
InterFaith Tour in Asia.
GV: What happens next with the project?
Victor: Yes, this is only a pilot project.
We hope to create a movement based on the InterFaith Tour. A new team would go on tour every year to discover new regions of the world or continue the work we started in countries where we did not stay long enough.
These 5 Experts Explain Why Alexander Sodiqov's Arrest in Tajikistan Is So Troubling · Global Voices
Speakers at the Global Discussion on Alexander Sodiqov event in Bishkek on June 26, 2014.
This post is part of our campaign #FreeAlexSodiqov: GV Author Detained in Tajikistan.
More than a week has passed since scholar and Global Voices community member Alexander Sodiqov was detained in Tajikistan, where he was conducting research on conflict resolution as part of an ongoing collaborative project with the University of Exeter.
The 31-year-old was arrested on June 16 in the town of Khorog in the Autonomous Region of Gorno-Badakshan (GBAO) by the Tajik State Security Service (GKNB) while he was with a local opposition leader as part of his academic work.
Since then, organizations in Tajikistan and around the world have demanded his release.
Some fear Sodiqov's wrongful arrest could have consequences on international academic cooperation and carrying out research in the Central Asian region.
Civic activists and journalists from a host of different countries gathered at the American University of Central Asia in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan to discuss this and other aspects of the troubling case on June 26.
Similar events were held June 27 in Exeter, London, Astana, Washington, Freiburg and Heidelburg.
An event in support of Sodiqov was also held in Paris last week.
Here are five excerpts of the conversation in Bishkek.
Dr. Mokhira Suyarkulova, Bishkek-based political scientist
Dr. Mokhira Suyarkulova.
Photo by Natali Anarbaeva
I did not know Alexander closely but had come into contact with him via academic circles and with his work and I had even met him in Dushanbe before he went to Khorog.
I understand his situation because our academic research in Tajikistan was also fairly sensitive.
We were looking at the construction of the hydroelectric dams in Central Asia, and, in Tajikistan, specifically the construction of the hydroelectic dam Rogun.
We tried to receive all official permissions to conduct research on this theme and where we didn't we decided not to conduct research via underground methods.
However, despite this, when we arrived in the town of Rogun the the Security Services became interested in our presence, demanding copies of our passports at the hotel where we were staying.
After that members of the security services tailed us during one of our meetings.
Following that another member of the security services - who smelled strongly of alcohol - visited us during an interview and invited us into his car...we did not get in.
After that we understood the government would not leave us alone and that we could be endangering people in Rogun by meeting with them, so we left the region.
These types of events have consequences for anyone doing research in Central Asia but especially citizens of Central Asian countries that study abroad, or have partnerships with foreign universities.
After Alexander Sodiqov's arrest, we see fully that citizenship defines your level of insulation from government authorities.
Now I fear Alexander's arrest will lead to a process of self-censorship , wherein people will limit themselves, ahead of conducting the research, in terms of the themes they will address in research, the questions they will ask, and the research methods they will use.
Dr. Olivier Ferrando, French political scientist
French political scientist Oliver Ferrando.
I knew Alexander.
We had some panels together at Indiana and at other conferences because we research very similar kinds of issues.
Some of my most sensitive research centres around ethnicity and mobilization in southern Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
Other than the case of my colleague Stephane Dudoignon in Iran, I have never encountered a case where a researcher has encountered as much trouble as Alexander has.
We don't know why Tajikistan has decided to make this move - there is no agenda, there are no elections happening...clearly what we have here is the limitation of the freedom of expression.
Now an academic can be accused of being a spy?
I agree with Mohira.
If you have a foreign passport you might be kicked out of a country or refused a visa - as happened to me once with Uzbekistan - but when you are a national of these countries they can accuse academics of betrayal of their country, of subversion, and these accusations are much more serious, because then we are talking about 12-20 years of imprisonment.
This is difficult for me as someone who represents an institute that encourages international academic cooperation and that has an office in Dushanbe .
Beyond the case of Alexander Sodiqov this threatens that cooperation.
My institution supports for instance, the Institute of History, that produces a bulletin in English and French.
It supports the creation of regional conferences, involving researchers from Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. By arresting a figure such as Alexander Sodiqov, who represents an international project and international cooperation, the Tajik authorities have dealt a blow to all these efforts.
Dr. Emil Joroev, American University of Central Asia, Kyrgyzstan
Dr. Emil Joroev, American University of Central Asia, Kyrgyzstan.
I would like to speak as a representative of Central Asia, as a person that isn't from London, or Toronto, or Washington, who is asking "Guys, what are you doing?", but as a person from Central Asia asking "Guys, what are we doing?"
Alexander Sodiqov is based at the University of Toronto but is nevertheless a Tajik national whose research interests are based on Central Asia and Tajikistan.
He is widely published.
His academic interests include Political Science, International Relations and Human Rights.
He is a serious young intellectual, and one with a young wife and child.
He made the decision to go back to his homeland, within the framework of a contracted academic project based on conflict resolution.
Conflict resolution is a theme that is growing in popularity in Central Asia.
Alexander's partner in the project was Dr. John Heathershaw, someone who I might say is one of the biggest, most sincere friends Tajikistan could ever wish for.
One of his books on establishing peace after Tajikistan's civil war is among the most popular pieces of academic research there is on Tajikistan.
Here we are almost 17 years on from the establishment of that peace and I read Tajik president Emomali Rahmon is reminding the population of the importance of peace, mutual understanding and tolerance.
I think it would be tragic if the security services of Tajikistan closed the door on the country's friends - people like John Heathershaw, who in the past decade or so has travelled through over more mountain passes and through more valleys in Tajikistan than even most Tajikistanis ever will - that are trying to make this beautiful and interesting country better-known to the wider world.
I strongly believe that the security services have made a serious mistake.
Heathershaw and Sodiqov are not foreign agents, but simply academic researchers.
Tajikistan as a country is not one that has an interest in stamping down on academic research.
We hope for a rational reckoning on the part of the relevant bodies that detained Alexander Sodiqov, and that they will soon release him.
Marat Mamadshoev, editor-in-chief of the Tajik news agency Ozodagon
Marat Mamadshoev, editor-in-chief of the Tajik news agency Ozodagon.
Photo by Natali Anarbaeva.
I would like to draw attention to the similarities between Alexander's case and the detention of Ursunboy Usmonov, a BBC journalist and my colleague, who was accused, not like Alexander, of espionage, but of extremist activities after he interviewed members of the banned Islamic group Hizbut-Tahrir.
During Usmonov's detention, he received beatings and cigarette burnings from the Tajik security services.
This is the same Tajik security services that have received enormous technical and material assistance from the government of the United States.
Circumstances show that citizens of the countries of Central Asia have no defense in the face of local security structures.
These accusations are unlikely to be made against a foreign researcher.
The accusations made against Usmonov and Sodiqov - wild and unsubstantiated - are made against Tajiks, Uzbeks, Kyrgyz and so on, by their own governments.
Usmonov's case was viewed by a judge in a closed court, and I fear the same for Sodiqov's case.
Sodiqov's relatives have already announced that they are dissatisfied with the lawyer provided to Alexander by the state, who is not responding to their calls.
The main problem here is that Tajik civil society, experts, journalists - we have all become victims of this geopolitical war between Russia and the West.
We are hostages of that war and our elite is extracting maximum benefits from it.
Kyrgyzbek Konunov, Tajik activist
Kyrgyzbek Konunov, Tajik activist.
There is chronicle to Sodiqov's arrest.
For several weeks the Tajik government had been working on creating an anti-Western mood in Tajikistan.
This was connected to the visit by representatives of the European Union and subsequently the United Kingdom to the GBAO region.
Anti-Western publications began to appear in the press and so on.
So Sodiqov's arrest is just a culmination of that.
I think it is pertinent that Sodiqov was in Tajikistan as a conflictologist, studying the resolution of problems, because in Tajikistan there are a series of problems that prefers not to consider problems.
The result is that they are never solved.
By arresting Sodiqov, the Tajik government were making yet another attempt to show civil society that any attempts to cooperate with the external world will be unsuccessful.
But I actually think that they have shown the opposite.
The reaction of local and foreign experts, of Sodiqov's colleagues and international civil society to his wrongful detention has been unprecedented.
If we succeed in forcing the government to release a man who is innocent of the crimes he has been accused of committing, then it will be a massive victory for Tajik civil society.
To find out how you can help visit our campaign #FreeAlexSodiqov: GV Author Detained in Tajikistan.
Learn How to Protect Your Email Communication in Less Than 30 Minutes · Global Voices
#EmailSelfDefense infographic by Journalism++ for the Free Software Foundation (CC BY 4.0)
Email Self-Defense, a beginner's guide to email encryption by the Free Software Foundation (FSF), was released in six new languages on June 30, 2014.
More languages are underway.
Even if you have nothing to hide, using encryption helps protect the privacy of people you communicate with, and makes life difficult for bulk surveillance systems.
If you do have something important to hide, you're in good company; these are the same tools that Edward Snowden used to share his famous secrets about the NSA.
Edward, a friendly email bot, helps Email Self-Defense users test their new encryption systems.
FSF's guide was originally launched as part of the Reset The Net campaign on June 5, 2014 — a global day of action against bulk surveillance that marked the first anniversary of Edward Snowden's revelations about the US National Security Agency's (NSA) massive and indiscriminate global spying machine.
"Email Self-Defense is only one important piece of the solution to bulk surveillance," FSF states:
While we learn email encryption tools, we also need to push politically to reign in surveillance, build a safer Internet, and force governments and companies to reduce the amount of data they collect about us in the first place.
We hope translated versions of Email Self-Defense can be the entry into this multifaceted movement for people all around the world.
Russian Digital Sovereignty Is Here and, Yes, It Includes Schoolgirls · Global Voices
Russia's new state-sponsored Internet search engine runs into early troubles with queries for "schoolgirl."
Images mixed by author.
Russia’s new state-sponsored Internet search engine is now in beta testing, and users are finding that it produces some curious results.
Sputnik.ru, the Kremlin’s answer to foreign sites like Google and independent engines such as Yandex, realizes a long-held ambition of many in the Russian government to control the way people browse the Internet.
According to Ilya Ponomarev, one of only two opposition deputies in the Russian parliament, the idea of a state-controlled search engine was born during the 2008 military conflict with Georgia, when hardliners determined that existing Web portals favor news and information that is biased against Russia’s geopolitical interests.
Anton Nosik, a founder of Russia’s Internet and another prominent oppositionist, has speculated that Rostelecom, the state-controlled telephony company charged with developing Sputnik.ru, is merely looking to fleece the budget for as much as 60 million dollars.
Rostelecom’s Vice President, Alexey Basov, on the other hand, insists that Sputnik.ru isn’t costing taxpayers a kopeck, claiming that the company is investing only its own corporate funds.
After Sputnik.ru went live for beta-testing today in Russia (the site remains inaccessible to foreign IP addresses), Basov was clearly in high spirits, telling reporters gathered at this year’s St. Petersburg International Economic Forum that the site would be unlike existing search engines.
Sputnik.ru apparently utilizes “special mathematical algorithms” that enhance its filtration of unwholesome content.
“It’s important to us,” Basov explained, “that Internet searches for ‘schoolgirl’ find girls in nice dresses and white aprons , and not something else.”
Sputnik.ru’s special algorithms seem not to have understood their mission.
No sooner than Basov announced the website’s moral superiority did Russian bloggers begin posting screen captures of search queries conducted using Sputnik.ru, showing how the site in fact returns all manner of erotic and even pornographic results.
This is true even when searching for “schoolgirl,” despite Basov’s promise to journalists today.
To make matters worse for Rostelecom, it appears that Yandex actually filters nudity and sexual materials more effectively than Sputnik.ru.
Searching for "schoolgirl" with Sputnik.ru.
Searching for "schoolgirls" with Yandex.ru.
For now, Sputnik.ru’s official aims are to integrate with the state’s e-government programs, offering citizens a better way to find public services.
There is also talk that the website will be made the default search engine on all government computers.
The project is part of a broader push for more “digital sovereignty” in Russia.
The website’s very name, “Sputnik,” means “satellite,” and is a nod to the Soviet Union’s greatest scientific achievement.
In a recent interview with Forbes Russia, Konstantin Malofeyev, a prominent Orthodox business and political leader, discussed the need to wrestle control of the Internet away from the United States.
According to Malofeyev, who was instrumental in developing Russia’s original blacklist for illegal online content, America must understand that it does not own the Web.
He even compared the invention of the Internet, which is often attributed to the US Defense Department, to the Soviet Union’s launch of the Sputnik satellite, which began the Space Age.
“Russians opened outer space,” Malofeyev boasted, “but there’s no Soviet or Russian law on outer space that everyone must observe.”
Russia’s conservative patriots have a point.
Sputnik is history and Russia’s monopoly on space exploration was short-lived, but now there is Sputnik.ru.
And it has schoolgirls.
9 Quietly Profound Photos From Kyrgyzstan That Foreshadow Central Asia's Water Wars · Global Voices
Finding safe drinking water is difficult in the Batken region of Kyrgyzstan.
Due to the many dams nearby, rivers dry up, and people find themselves forced to fight for every drop of water.
Photo by Fyodor Savintsev / Salt Images, 2012.
Copyright: Creative Time Reports, used with permission.
The original version of this piece was first published on Creative Time Reports.
Photos by Fyodor Savintsev, text by Katya Kazbek and Global Voices Central Asia Editor Chris Rickleton.
Today 780 million people lack access to drinking water.
The lack of this precious resource in Central Asia, not only traps people in situations of dire need and sanitary hazard; it also foreshadows the rise of “water wars”—cross-border skirmishes over access to water that aggravate ecological strife and give the region sharp political overtones.
Kurambaev Almaz, 69, lives with his wife more than 100 miles away from the nearest town in Kyrgyzstan’s Osh Province.
Almaz travels by donkey into the mountains to find drinking water.
Photo by Fyodor Savintsev / Salt Images, 2008.
By 2030 nearly half the world’s population will inhabit areas of “high water stress,” according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Central Asia is divided into water-rich upstream and water-poor downstream states.
The fact that Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan, the upstream countries, have the two weakest economies in the region might be seen as nature’s way of offsetting material poverty with ecological abundance.
Still, the balance of resources in Central Asia is far from a happy one.
Currently some Kyrgyz lawmakers are toying with the idea of cutting the flow of water to semi-arid Uzbekistan, the nation with the region’s largest population and standing army, after Uzbekistan cut gas supplies to Kyrgyzstan’s southern city of Osh in April.
View of the road through Kyrgyzstan’s Kalmak-Ashu Pass, which is more than two miles above sea level.
Photo by Fyodor Savintsev / Salt Images, 2008.
Uzbekistan’s decision to cut Osh’s gas may well have its origins in a long-running water dispute.
Officials in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan, are aghast at Kyrgyz and Tajik plans to build giant hydroelectric dams upstream of the Syr Darya and Amu Darya rivers.
A family drinks water from a pipe jutting out of the mountains in the Naryn region of Kyrgyzstan.
Photo by Fyodor Savintsev / Salt Images, 2013.
Uzbekistan relies on these water sources for its strategically vital agricultural sector, and fears the dams will provide difficult neighbors with the leverage to delay the release of water.
In 2012 Uzbekistan’s president, Islam Karimov, warned that moving forward with these plans without regard for downstream states like Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan could lead to a full-blown war.
Lake Issyk Kul is the largest lake in Kyrgyzstan and the tenth-largest lake in the world by volume.
Photo by Fyodor Savintsev / Salt Images, 2012.
Water problems are not limited to conflicts between the region’s states, but extend to clashes within states and between communities living in them.
They also arise from crumbling Soviet-era infrastructure.
Upstream Kyrgyzstan, for instance, loses a third of its water wealth through holes in decaying irrigation networks.
This problem is critical in rural areas, where large amounts of water are crucial for the growth of crops.
A shepherd boy watches a herd of cows as he stands on a tree stump near Lake Issyk Kul.Photo by Fyodor Savintsev / Salt Images, 2013.
To keep produce from drying out, desperate Kyrgyz villagers have set up handmade dams that divert the local rivers and make irrigation accessible. Their actions have led to drought in downstream communities.
In areas like the Kyrgyz region of Batken, where few can objectively verify where Kyrgyzstan ends and Tajikistan starts, violent clashes between Kyrgyz and Tajik villagers over irrigation water have become commonplace.
Both sides accuse the other of stealing.
A quarry filled with water from melting snow in the Nookat region of Kyrgyzstan.
Photo by Fyodor Savintsev / Salt Images, 2012.
Copyright: Creative Time Reports, used with permission.
But Central Asia’s water scarcity is just a snapshot of a broader crisis with grave consequences for the whole Asian continent, according to several Russian scientists studying the ramifications of the water shortage.
Military officers guard the entrance to the Kambaratinsk Dam on the Naryn River.
The Kambar-Ati-1 Hydro Power Plant at the base of the dam, largely financed through a $2 billion Russian aid package, will have a capacity of approximately 1,900 megawatts.
In China, a giant population and large-scale commercial activities are placing huge pressure on the Illi and Irtysh rivers, both of which flow into Kazakhstan, the latter connecting with the Ob in Russia.
Further draining of the Ob-Irtysh basin will cause irreparable damage to all of Asia, threatening vast expanses of fertile lands, jeopardizing the fishing industry and severely harming the Russian part of the Arctic Ocean.
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the irrigation system in Kyrgyzstan has fallen into decay.
Photo by Fyodor Savintsev / Salt Images, 2012.
Central Asia’s water conflicts are often perceived as local skirmishes of little significance to the rest of the world.
But as the water levels in the region diminish with every passing year, the anguish of dry spells will drive more and more people to enter into conflict.
A point of no return for this socio-ecological disaster is drawing nearer.
Shedding light on the situation is of pivotal importance today, while there is still time to prevent the water shortages—and the wars that will come with them—from spreading.
Malaysians on MH17 Crash: “Regardless of Nationality, We Are All United in Grief” · Global Voices
Family members rushed to Kuala Lumpur International Airport when informed about the flight MH17 crash.
Photo by Danny Chan, Copyright @Demotix.
(7/18/2014)
Malaysia Airlines flight MH17, en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, crashed in eastern Ukraine Thursday evening, killing all 298 passengers and crew members aboard.
Most reports indicate that the plane was shot down by a missile approximately 50km from the Russia-Ukraine border.
The Ukraine government is accusing pro-Russian insurgents of using a BUK surface-to-air missile system to shoot down the plane but rebel leaders have denied this.
This infographic shows the flight path and crash site of MH17:
Infographic: Crashsite Map incl.
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak assured his constituents that those who shot down the plane will be brought to justice:
This is a tragic day, in what has already been a tragic year, for Malaysia.
If it transpires that the plane was indeed shot down, we insist that the perpetrators must swiftly be brought to justice.
The flight’s passengers and crew came from many different countries.
But today, regardless of nationality, we are all united in grief.
He also clarified that the aircraft’s flight route, even if it passed directly above a conflict zone, was declared safe by the International Civil Aviation Organisation.
Flight MH17 crashed in eastern Ukraine.
Photo by Danny Chan, Copyright @Demotix (7/18/2014)
The MH17 crash was the second time that a Malaysian Airlines Boeing 777-200 aircraft went down this year.
On March 8, a Malaysian Airlines MH370 plane carrying 237 people went missing just an hour after it left Kuala Lumpur during its flight to Beijing.
The MH370 plane and its passengers have yet to be found.
A daughter of an MH370 flight attendant tweeted her message of support to the families and friends of MH17 passengers:
As the family member of the crew MH370, and on behalf of all them, we pray for MH17.
Stay strong dear families. #PrayForMH17 — Maira E. (@Gorgxous_) July 17, 2014
Josie Fernandez of Transparency International Malaysia urged a complete probe of the incident:
What has happened is unprecedented – Malaysia is the only country where the same carrier, the same type of planes have been involved in tragedies with loss of many lives within months.
MH370 has not been found.
Malaysia must demand for international action on this unprecedented tragedy.
This is a passenger plane. We are not at war with any nations.
Writing for The Ant Daily, Alyaa Alhadjri described the shooting down of MH17 as a ‘mass murder’:
Why are commercial passenger jets still flying over a conflict area where airplanes have been shot down and warned to steer clear of the airspace.
Whatever the causes for another MAS Boeing 777 for going down a second time in 133 days, losing 537 people in two air disasters does not help lift passengers' confidence in the national airline.
As Malaysia grieves over another tragic crash, it seems inevitable that many citizens will again press the government to explain the mysterious disappearance of MH370.
Tajik Authorities Detain Global Voices Contributor · Global Voices
This post was originally published on Eurasianet.org and is republished with permission.
The unexplained arrest of a researcher carrying out fieldwork in Tajikistan’s troubled Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region (GBAO) is sparking alarm among Central Asian academics and journalists.
Reports of Alexander Sodiqov’s arrest first filtered out during the afternoon of June 16, when the researcher, a Tajik-born PhD student at the University of Toronto and the former Central Asia Editor for Global Voices, was meeting with Alim Sherzamonov, regional representative of the opposition Social Democratic Party of Tajikistan, according to RFE/RL’s Tajik service.
Tajikistan’s GKNB (state security service) subsequently released a statement June 17 via state media Khovar.tj, confirming that Sodiqov had been detained for carrying out “subversion and espionage” on behalf of a foreign country, a charge they linked to a June 10 email sent from Sodiqov’s account (officials did not disclose how they obtained access to the account and whether they did so before or after Sodiqov’s arrest).
GKNB operatives presumably believed the “foreign country” to have been the UK, given Sodiqov’s research was funded by the British Economic and Social Research council.
A British Embassy statement expressed concern about Sodiqov’s treatment.
View of Khorog, Tajikistan, by Zack Knowles.
Used under Creative Commons BA-SY 3.0 license.
Sodiqov’s supervisor on the project, John Heathershaw, put out the following statement on social media on the evening of June 16:
“It is now almost 20 hours since we have heard from Alexander Sodiqov who was apparently arrested while conducting research in Tajikistan.
We do not know if he has been released or remains detained.
Alexander Sodiqov, a researcher contracted by the University of Exeter, has been detained by security services whilst conducting an interview with a civil society representative in Khorog, in the eastern region of Badakhshan.
Sodiqov was conducting research for a British Economic and Social Research Council project called Rising Powers and Conflict Management in Central Asia which also involves the University of Newcastle and the NGO Saferworld.
He is a citizen of Tajikistan who is a PhD student at the University of Toronto and ordinarily resident in Canada.
His colleague John Heathershaw is an academic at the University of Exeter and his supervisor of the research project.
The project looks at how international actors, states and civil society work to resolve conflict.
Alexander has not been heard from since his detention at 2.30pm (9.30am GMT) on Tuesday 16 June.
His family and friends are very concerned for his whereabouts.”
Heathershaw was subsequently interviewed by independent local media Asia Plus June 17 under the heading “Alexander is a Researcher, not a Spy.”
Heathershaw also told EurasiaNet.org that the apartment of Sodiqov’s mother in Dushanbe had been ransacked during a police search.
Security officers reportedly confiscated flash drives and computers.
It seems unlikely that Tajik authorities, at least in Dushanbe, did not know of Sodiqov prior to his arrest.
Sodiqov is well-known as an analyst in Central Asia, having written regularly about Tajikistan and the wider region for outlets such as Jamestown, in addition to Global Voices.
He has also provided interviews for EurasiaNet.org on more than one occasion and was the main author of the Tajikistan Monitor blog.
Before entering the University of Toronto, Sodiqov held several positions at the Dushanbe office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and lectured at the Russian-Tajik University.
While RFE/RL reported Sodiqov released earlier today, his wife Musharraf Sodiqova has not confirmed contact with the analyst.
Whatever the outcome, his arrest is likely to be interpreted by many as a warning from Tajik authorities that in Khorog, the epicenter of deadly government-opposition clashes in July 2012, as well as smaller scale unrest this May, it is better not to ask questions, or look for answers.
African Ebola Survivors Share Their Stories of Recovery and Stigma · Global Voices
Ebola virus under an electron microscope.
Photo by Flickr user NIAID.
CC BY 2.0
According to the latest figures from the World Health Organization, 2,615 cases of Ebola have been reported throughout West Africa and 1,427 people have died in what is being described as the world's worst outbreak of the virus.
There is no confirmed cure for Ebola, and the mortality rate for the latest outbreak sits at around 50 percent — although previous outbreaks have seen up to 90 percent of the infected perish.
Those who have survived Ebola have remarkable tales of resilience and heroic care from local health workers, but also of sadness and rejection because of ignorance about the disease.
20, the WHO published a video on YouTube showcasing three of those survivors: Saah Tambah and Harrison Sakilla from Liberia and Matu Kamara from Sierra Leone.
Saah Tambah explains how he became infected and his life since his recovery:
I got the Ebola from an uncle in Koindu.
I went to visit him for two nights because there was no one to take care of him.
After a few days, he died and then his wife and daughter died too I started vomiting and suffered from diarrhea so I went to the clinic.
When I got sick, my family doubted my recovery.
Thank god for the doctors.
They gave me a certificate that indicates I am free of Ebola in case anyone would still doubt.
Harrison Sakilla, 39, is from Foya in the north of Liberia.
He is the first survivor from his area. He lost his mother to the disease.
He says:
I got the disease caring for my mother.
If someone starts to see symptoms, one should go to an Ebola health center. They will provide care and one can make it out.
Matu Kamara, 52, says she lost her sister and her child to Ebola:
My daughter felt sick after caring from my husband's other wife.
She was feeling cold.
I took her to the hospital and they gave her medicine.
She felt better but then later she started vomiting.
She died in our arms.
I felt sick and began vomiting.
I went to the hospital and two days later, I felt better.
We survivors from this sickness need a certificate to show to people that we had Ebola and we were treated.
Do not wait to become very sick before going to the hospital.
People who recover from the disease often face heartbreaking post-survival rejection because of a lack of understanding of how the disease spreads.Such is the story of Dr. Melvin Korkor, a doctor of Phebe hospital in Liberia.
Korkor has survived Ebola but he explains that his relatives and friends were weary of touching him, as reported on the Liberian-based Front Page Africa Online:
Even though Korkor said he has been cleared of Ebola, he says that people avoid him.
‘Now, everywhere in my neighborhood, all the looks bore into me like I’m the plague,” he said.
FrontPageAfrica reporter who trailed the Phebe doctor on Cuttington campus Monday observed that people left places when he showed up while friends, students and loved ones avoided his handshake or eat with him "Thanks to God, I am cured.
But now I have a new disease: the stigmatization that I am a victim of,” Korkor was quoted by a local radio station in Gbarnga.
‘This disease (the stigma) is worse than the fever.
Liberia is one of the four countries dealing with the outbreak, alongside Guinea, Nigeria and Sierra Leone.
Claudius Barnawolo, a Liberian physician's assistant, also beat the odds and survived Ebola.
Front Page Africa Online recorded his testimony and his family members who also felt the stigma of rejection from their community:
Awareness about Ebola and how it is spread remains a challenge.
Côte d'Ivoire has started an important Ebola prevention campaign, even though no cases has been detected yet.
Ivorian bloggers have repurposed the viral ALS Ice Bucket Challenge for Ebola awareness using the French-language hashtag #moussercontreEbola (lather up against Ebola):
The work of lab scientists such as Dr. Korkor or Barnawolo to detect and sort out whether ailing patients have Ebola virus is also crucial in fighting the epidemic.
Abdoulaye Bah, a volunteer author and translator for Global Voices, highlighted their work in Liberia (via Jina Moore):
Jeejuah, 30, and two other women, all volunteers, are cooking for 12 of the most important, but invisible, people in Liberia right now.
The dozen meals are meant for the team of technicians that tests the blood of suspected Ebola patients.
They visit sick peoples’ homes and overwhelmed Ebola treatment centers, sticking needles in the veins of physically unpredictable, highly contagious people.
They then drive their blood back to Liberia’s only medical lab, more than an hour from the capital of Monrovia.
Evidently fighting (and surviving) Ebola will take a tremendous deal of collective effort in the affected countries, especially considering the stigma inside and outside their borders.In the context of this epidemic, it has never been more crucial for the communities to realize that they need to get organized together in this struggle or they will perish together as fools.
Follow our in-depth coverage: The Struggle to #StopEbola in West Africa
Donetsk's Guerrilla Separatists Kidnap the Ukrainian Guerrilla Artist Who Dared to Mock Them · Global Voices
This is Sergey Zakharov's latest artwork critical of DNR and its former commander Strelkov.
Image from Facebook.
A Ukrainian guerrilla artist who has been stealthily putting up artwork mocking the separatists of the Donetsk People's Republic all around the occupied city of Donetsk has run out of luck—just over a week ago he was captured by the rebels and has been missing ever since.
Sergey Zakharov started creating artworks mocking the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic in July, and soon the first plywood figures of separatists sporting clown make-up and camouflage appeared on the city streets.
Affixed to fences and buildings, the grotesque silhouettes immediately attracted attention and photos of them started popping up in social networks.
Occupied Donetsk has been flooded with graffiti of terrorists looking like death, clowns and Sharikovs. Writer and fellow artist Sergii Mazurkevych, whom Zakharov invited to join his budding art collective dubbed Murzilka (after a fictional children's magazine character), said his friend's art was often a reaction to the events of the conflict in Eastern Ukraine. Sergey reacted to the Boeing which was shot down, and then he did this portrait of Strelkov-Girkin pointing a gun at his own head.
He put that one up on the wall of the "Komsomolets" cinema in downtown Donetsk.
This installation hung there for maybe two hours and it immediately started spreading online.
I even saw some people make avatars with the image. This was his last work —from July 30.
Zakharov himself, attaching a new artwork to a fence in Donetsk.
Zakharov's other rebel-themed installations include clown-faced anonymous insurgents with rifles, grinning skulls in military fatigues with the DNR flag and other colorful characters.
One of his more famous pieces is a family portrait of one of the rebel commanders nicknamed Motorola (notoriously short, portrayed by Zakharov as a Faun) and his new, much taller bride—this one was affixed to a fence right outside the city's wedding registrar office, and also went viral online.
Donetsk artists continue to fight terrorism using art.
The rebels, of course, also noticed the guerrilla art, and were not happy about it.
Mazurkevych says their art collective's webpage was hacked and deleted twice in early August, and is still unavailable, although their Facebook page is active.
Then, late at night on August 6, Zakharov was in his workshop when he was visited by four armed men and a civilian. They took him to the Donetsk Security Services building (one of DNR's strongholds), along with his computer and art sketches, says his neighbor.
He has been missing for over a week.
His friends say it's unclear why he's being investigated with such scrutiny by the rebels, since his only crime was to "display his work in the streets of Donetsk's city center, which can be considered an administrative offense at best.
There is no basis for holding him in a de facto prison."
Zakharov's colleagues have rallied for his freedom: a group of Russian artists installed a figure similar to Zakharov's own work in a park in Saint Petersburg in protest at his kidnapping.
The group said they felt they had the right to speak out as it was their government which was waging "an aggressive, interventionist politics which no peaceful person could condone."
An installation in Zakharov's honour put up by Russian artists in Saint Petersburg.
Sign reads: "Freedom to Murzilkas!"
Facebook users commenting on the photos of the installation, like Sergey Storchuk, said Zakharov and his colleagues were very brave to take their art public:
Murzilkas are heroes!
You've got to have balls of steel and a huge talent to troll the Rashist occupants so creatively in a city under siege!
We await your release, fingers crossed, come back alive and well.
Another of Sergey Zakharov's creations on a wall in Donetsk.
Hopefully we'll be seeing more of his art soon.
Thailand’s Prime Minister Apologizes for Suggesting Bikinis Raise the Murder Rate Among Tourists · Global Voices
Prayuth Chan-ocha 29th Prime Minister of Thailand and chief of the army.
Photo by Vichan Poti, Copyright @Demotix (9/4/2014)
Thailand's Prime Minister has apologized for suggesting that tourists visiting his country might not be safe if they wear bikinis.
When he made the "bikini gaffe," Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha was speaking to television reporters about the brutal murder of two British tourists at a popular beach destination south of Thailand.
Prayuth later clarified that he didn’t mean to offend anyone and only wished to express his concern about the safety of tourists.
Earlier this week, the dead bodies of Hannah Witheridge (age 23) and David Miller (age 24) were found on the beach resort island of Koh Tao, just south of Thailand.
Initial reports indicate that the young Britons were probably murdered. A police investigation is now underway.
Thai authorities were busy working the murder case when Prayuth delivered his now infamous remark:
There are always problems with tourist safety.
They think our country is beautiful and is safe so they can do whatever they want, they can wear bikinis and walk everywhere...Can they be safe in bikinis... unless they are not beautiful?
Thailand's mass media did not widely report Prayuth's statement, but it triggered strong and angry reactions in other countries, especially in the United Kingdom.
Many have accused the Thai leader of "blaming the victim" instead of solving the crime.
Prayuth was quick to apologize:
I am sorry that my statement caused uneasiness.
I affirm that I did not look down on or criticize anyone.
I simply wanted to warn them to be careful at certain places and certain times.
He added that he was under intense pressure during the interview:
I admit that sometimes I speak too strongly.
It was because I felt pressured and sad for the victims.
I feel sorry for them, no matter if they are Thais or foreigners.
I don't want this kind of loss to ever happen again.
Careful not to bear too much responsibility for the tragedy, Prayuth then shifted to blaming migrant workers for violent crimes and warned both the public and tourists to be vigilant against illegal aliens:
I insist that Thailand is safe, although there are some not-good people here.
Therefore, they have to be careful.
Their country and our country do not have equal safety.
I admit I am worried for them.
We have to help take care of and not let not-good people mingle with us, such as unregistered alien workers.
We can't let them work like that.
It's dangerous and it can cause damage to the country.
The scene of the murders is one of Thailand's most famous island resorts.
Many online have shared photographs from the picturesque location, when remembering the two victims.
It's now 3 days since 2 British tourists found dead at end of this Thai beach.
Total confusion over police inquiry pic.twitter.com/pJ2JK3ZxXM — Tom Phillips (@tomphillipsin) September 18, 2014 Families of David Miller and Hannah Witheridge pay tribute to the murdered tourists http://t.co/vijl2O05UY pic.twitter.com/W6zHGbKvHH — IBTimes UK (@IBTimesUK) September 16, 2014
Blogging for the Asian Correspondent, Saksith Saiyasombut noted that the “half-baked joke is inappropriate," calling on Prayuth to be more careful with his public statements in the future: …this is a lesson for the outgoing army chief, junta leader and prime minister that he is now under much, much more public scrutiny now that he has took (over) this position and that he has to choose his words more carefully.
Prayuth promises a quick investigation, assuring tourists that Thailand remains safe for tourists.
That the prime minister actually apologized suggests the enormity of international backlash to his gaffe.
Of course, inadequate reporting about Prayuth's comments by the local press reflects the sorry state of media freedom in Thailand today.
Unfortunately, many Internet users it seems are still unable to criticize openly the policies and actions of army officials.
Or perhaps civic forces inside Thailand compelled Prayuth to apologize for his blunder, after all. If the latter is true, maybe this incident will inspire more citizens to challenge the other controversial policies of the country's military-backed regime.
Pussy Riot's Dynamic Duo Launches a New Media Portal · Global Voices
Pussy Riot activists attend Roskilde Festival, 4 July 2014, by Jacob Crawfurd.
Demotix.
Pussy Riot's two brightest stars, Maria Alyokhina and Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, are back with a new project.
Last week, they launched a new media portal devoted to reporting on issues and events in Russia's prison system.
"MediaZona" will partner with "Zona Prava," Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova's existing charity, which promotes prisoners' rights. (Curiously, Zona Prava's website hasn't been updated since March 19, 2014.)
Notable Russian journalist Sergey Smirnov will serve as editor-in-chief on the new media project.
The website is already up and running, posting live updates about notable arrests, opinionated commentaries, and more detailed texts recounting people's experiences in Russian prisons
In a press release for the site, Tolokonnikova said the group's news portal is meant to compensate for Russia's mass media, which she lambasts as heavily censored and inaccurate.
Since our release from prison 6 months ago we've felt that Russian media are no longer able to cover what is going on.
Because of the heavy censorship by authorities there is no space for anything in the media that criticizes Putin's policies and tracks human rights abuses by Russian courts and law enforcement.
The editorial team for MediaZona.
Image from voiceproject.org.
The website plans to provide comprehensive coverage of prison-related issues in Russia.
We strive to make what occurs in the Russian Prison System more visible.
Persecution of civic activists and human rights organizations, police violence and torture, the slave system within Russian prisons, corruption, judicial callousness and nerve, legislative absurdity, doves flying overhead , and police dogs — these are only some of the topics of interest that we'll cover.
Initial reaction from the RuNet to the new site's arrival has been largely positive, with many saying it filled a niche and could be instrumental in showing the dirty underbelly of the Russian criminal system.
Journalist Kirill Martynov tweeted,
I think Mediazona is a great project.
It's time to stop pretending that Russia has politics without dogs and convoys.
"A view from behind bars gives the best view of how the government process works,” the website says.
After being released early from prison last December, Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova immediately formed Zona Prava, which provides legal, psychological, and informational support to prisoners and criminal defendants in Russia.
This summer, both women filed a lawsuit against the Russian government in the European Court of Human Rights, demanding compensation for their arrest, trial, and imprisonment.
They are asking roughly $170,000 USD each.
Surprising Europe, an Open Archive of Stories About Migration · Global Voices
There are millions of them.
They live scattered across our continent, Europe.
They are all categorised as immigrants. Despite this, none of them have the same story.
Each one is different from the other. Therefore, if we wanted to tell everyone's life story, it would take thousands of books.
However, there is an online project that helps to establish contact with these people who are generically labelled as migrants.
It helps to overcome prejudices and stereotypes and improve people's knowledge about them.
Surprising Europe belongs to them, an open book, written by many people and supported by pictures and videos.
Personal stories, successes, failures and hopes are "written" on this platform.
It is the immigrants who tell their story in first person.
It is surprising when you find out how much strength is necessary to overcome language barriers, bureaucracy, and relationships.
It is surprising when you find out how many would like to go home and cannot.
Many go back and tell their friends: it is better if we build our future here, in our land.
It is surprising when this message is sent: better poor but free.
It is surprising when you find out that even in Europe there are poor people and when someone admits that the old continent is not the paradise they dreamed of.
And it is surprising when, on the contrary, someone sees their dream come true, those who succeed through music, those who build a career in a factory, those who study and set up a freelance profession.
In this open space, the words are not abridged and experiences find a way of becoming a common, shared heritage.
This site highlights lives on the margins of society, but also successes.
You have to enter without preconceptions, without imagining what you will find, as when meeting friends, where one topic leads to another.
The idea—a non-profit project—aims to document the experiences of legal but also illegal migration.
It was created by Witfilm Amsterdam and Ssuuna Goloob, who arrived in Europe from Uganda to see with his own eyes if what he had heard about our countries and how we live here was true.
A project that many believe in, judging by the sponsors: from Al Jazeera, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, to the International Organisation for Migration and the European Union Fund for repatriation.
It is no coincidence that the idea was born in Amsterdam, the capital of the Netherlands, as it is regarded as one of the cities with the largest number of nationalities present: 176 out of a total of 811,000 inhabitants (the metropolitan area on the other hand has a population of 1.6 million inhabitants).
The website is divided into six categories: Leaving for Europe, Life in Europe, Short on luck, Getting down to work, Going back, Music.
A project within the project is some television series.
Each one different but related by some themes.
Stories of desperation, but also stories that are a source of inspiration, hope and creativity.
The dark side and the triumphant side.
The fight, sometimes defeat, often success.
The protagonists themselves worked on the television series, which has already been broadcast on Al Jazeera and on Dutch public television. In this case as well they try to avoid filters, interpretations and judgments.
The project also has a hymn, "Surprising Europe". It is sung by Annie, who was born in Italy, with Liberian origins.
And it is to Liberia that she would like to return. To get to know her land and maybe live there. Annie is now part of a "mixed" Afro band, Pepe Soup.
They want to convey a message to the world: UNITE!
Surprising Europe belongs to them, the immigrants, but it also belongs to anyone who wants to better understand and get to know these immigrants.
And to go a little deeper into their lives.
With Ayotzinapa Attack, Have Violence and Corruption Reached a Tipping Point in Mexico? · Global Voices "In the secret graves, in the streets that saw them fall, in the steps of those who are searching for them, in the cries of those who are waiting for them...In Ayotzinapa and in all of Mexico resounds an echo that screams 'JUSTICE.'"
Photo tweeted by @LaEscribesTu
At least 28 bodies have been unearthed from a mass grave near Iguala, in the southern Mexican state of Guerrero.
The bodies, which show clear signs of torture, were laid over branches and logs that were sprayed with fuel and set fire.
The victims appear to have been burned alive, a guard at the site told Spanish newspaper El Mundo.
A total of 28 scorched bodies were exhumed so far, though some unconfirmed reports pointed to a higher number of 34. Some of the remains were complete, while others were in pieces.
The authorities are conducting a variety of forensic tests to conclude if the human remains belong to 43 education students from the community of Ayotzinapa who went missing on September 26, after their bus was shot at by police agents and members of organized crime.
According to the authorities, the identification of the victims will take between 15 days and two months. Argentinian specialists are taking part in the process at the request of Ayotzinapa students.
Iñaky Blanco, the state of Guerrero's public prosecutor, claimed that "several of the police agents had links to organized crime, and in some cases were active drug trafficking hit men."
Later on during a press conference in Acapulco, he added that it was the "Director of Public Security of Iguala Francisco Salgado Valladares who gave the order to detain the student teachers from Ayotzinapa; and an individual known as 'El Chuky' from the criminal group Guerreros Unidos would have ordered the kidnap and murder of the young students."
The name United Warriors plays off the name of the state, Guerrero, which means warrior in Spanish. The students, who were taking part in a protest against job discrimination against teachers from rural areas, were traveling in a bus when they were ambushed by police. Three of the students were killed at the scene, as well as a football player who was in another unrelated bus, a bus driver and a woman who was in a taxi.
The Iguala city mayor, José Luis Abarca, left office right before the attack with the permission of the governor. No one seems to know the whereabouts of Abarca nor Salgado Valladares, who allegedly gave the order for the attack.
Even though the bodies haven't been identified yet, there are many venturing to guess that they belong to the missing students. If true, it would come as a great blow to the government, as it would mean that it is directly involved in the killing of unarmed civilians through its municipal police force: People involved with the investigation confirm that the 43 student teachers are in the mass grave found in Iguala.
Everybody to the National March on October 8 in your town. To read about more reactions and news, follow the hastags #Ayotzinapa, #AyotzinapaNoSeOlvida (We don't forget Ayotzinapa) and #JusticiaParaAyotzinapa (Justice for Ayotzinapa).
Beyond an Ebola-Free Nigeria · Global Voices
A screenshot of TIME magazine's tweet about Nigeria's containment of the Ebola virus.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) on Monday, 20th October declared Nigeria to be free of the Ebola virus.
A statement from the organization headlined "Nigeria is now free of Ebola virus transmission" reads:
"The lines on the tabular situation reports, sent to WHO each day by its country office in Nigeria, have now been full of zeros for 42 days.
WHO officially declares that Nigeria is now free of Ebola virus transmission.
"This is a spectacular success story that shows that Ebola can be contained.
The story of how Nigeria ended what many believed to be potentially the most explosive Ebola outbreak imaginable is worth telling in detail.
Such a story can help the many other developing countries that are deeply worried by the prospect of an imported Ebola case and eager to improve their preparedness plans.
Many wealthy countries, with outstanding health systems, may have something to learn as well."
Ebola's ravaging of West African countries like Liberia and Sierra Leone and its recent outbreak in Texas has generated global panic and hysteria.
Some infected healthcare workers who were administered a vaccine that is yet to undergo full clinical trials have recovered, The unavailability, however, of any true and tried treatment or vaccine has made the Ebola epidemic a cause of anxiety.
In light of these facts, Nigeria's successful curtailment of the disease is cause for hope and excitement, not only for that country, but for others as well.
Mexico: Shots Fired at Transparency Expert on University Campus · Global Voices
View of the university campus where the attempted murder took place.
Photo courtesy of the author, J. Tadeo (May, 2012).
Mexican jurist Ernesto Villanueva survived an attack on the morning of October 29, 2014, as he drove through the campus of the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), considered by many to be the country's most prestigious institution of higher learning.
Several shots were fired at Villanueva just outside the building that houses the Institute for Legal Research.
Ernesto Villanueva (@evillanuevamx) has spent much of his career studying the right to information, freedom of expression, transparency, and accountability.
Earlier this year, he was listed among possible candidates to serve as a commissioner for Mexico's Federal Institute for Access to Public Information and Data Protection, the mandate of which is to guarantee access to information.
Ernesto Villanueva.
Photo from his Twitter profile.
In a recently published article in the magazine Proceso, Dr. Villanueva denounced the lack of transparency and other alleged irregularities that overshadowed the appointment of the director of the Institute for Legal Research, in which former Institute director Diego Valadés was also involved.
Several academics, exercising their right of reply in the same periodical, vigorously refuted the allegations made by Villanueva and accused him of discrediting the institution.
In light of the dispute, according to Proceso, Dr. Villanueva suggested that Valadés could have been involved in the criminal acts:
For Abortion Rights in Bolivia, A Modest Gain · Global Voices Pro-life rally in Bolivia. Photo shared by @EmisorasUnidas on Twitter, February 14, 2014: "Bolivia doesn't decriminalize abortions, but it eliminates judicial authorization in legal cases."
This article, written by Emily Achtenberg, was originally published on the NACLA (North American Congress on Latin America) blog Rebel Currents.
Emily Achtenberg is an urban planner and the author of Rebel Currents, covering Latin American social movements and progressive governments.
On February 13, Bolivia’s highest court issued a long-awaited ruling addressing provisions of the country’s penal code that criminalize abortion, except in cases of rape, incest, or when a woman’s life or health is endangered.
In a closely watched case that has dragged on for two years, the Plurinational Constitutional Tribunal (TCP) rejected a challenge to the 1972 law based on Bolivia’s new Constitution, which guarantees women’s sexual and reproductive rights and prohibits gender-based discrimination.
But it also threw out an existing rule that requires a judge to give consent before a legal abortion can be performed, which has been a major obstacle to achieving safe abortions where they are permitted by law.
Both pro-choice and pro-life advocates have found reasons to celebrate the Solomon-like decision.
The Catholic Family and Human Rights Institute (C-FAM), citing the TCP’s explicit rejection of abortion as a reproductive right under the Constitution, calls the ruling a “stinging defeat” for proponents of decriminalization.
The TCP also affirmed that respect for life is a fundamental pillar of the Bolivian state.
But for IPAS, an international NGO that supports reproductive rights groups in Bolivia, the TCP’s elimination of the prior judicial consent requirement is a “significant, positive step for women’s rights in the region.”
A 2012 IPAS study found that judicial authority for therapeutic abortions is routinely denied, leaving even rape victims and women whose health is endangered at the mercy of clandestine procedures.
Reportedly, only six abortions have been approved in the more than 40 years since the penal code was enacted.
Elimination of judicial consent was a major demand of two United Nations committees that urged Bolivia last year to conform to the growing body of national and international jurisprudence affirming women’s rights to legal abortion.
Among other positive aspects of the ruling, IPAS cites the TCP’s directives to the Bolivian Congress and executive branch to ensure universal access to safe therapeutic abortions, and to develop health and educational programs to protect women’s sexual and reproductive rights.
Of interest, too, is the novel legal framework used by the TCP to rationalize its decision, in a seeming effort to reconcile Bolivian constitutional principles with international treaties and traditional indigenous beliefs.
In defense of Bolivia’s limited abortion rights, the ruling adopts an Andean-centric vision of human life as part of a cosmic cycle, without beginning or end, which is constitutionally protected.
At the same time, it recognizes Bolivia’s responsibility, as a member state to international treaties, to guarantee safe abortions for women covered by the law.
For the moment, at least, the ruling has served to defuse the emotionally charged debate stirred up by the case in this overwhelmingly Catholic and indigenous country.
Opponents of decriminalization have argued their case largely on moral and religious grounds.
In the words of indigenous deputy Emiliana Ayza , head of the ruling MAS (Movement Towards Socialism) party bloc in the Chamber of Deputies, “abortion is murder, a sin in the eyes of God.”
According to a 2010 survey, this view is shared by close to 80% of Bolivian women.
Still, 34% of those surveyed thought that, if faced with an unwanted pregnancy, a woman should seek an abortion.
The Catholic Church, a strong presence in Bolivia throughout its history (although the Catholic religion lost its official state status in 2009), has played a leading role in opposing abortion on political as well as religious grounds.
According to Archbishop of Santa Cruz Sergio Gualberti , abortion is an imperialist strategy for population control, promoted by international NGOs and foreign governments that are seeking to undermine Bolivia’s sovereignty.
This argument evokes the 1960s controversy over alleged efforts by the U.S. Peace Corp to sterilize indigenous women, which resulted in the Peace Corps’ expulsion from Bolivia.
Decriminalization advocates have focused on the public health crisis surrounding illegal abortion, with the highest risks incurred by poor and indigenous women.
Despite current restrictions, an estimated 60,000 to 80,000 abortions are performed annually in Bolivia, often using unsafe methods, and mostly in impoverished urban peripheries where indigenous populations are concentrated.
In close to half the cases, post-abortion emergency hospital care is required.
Studies show that unsafe abortions account for nearly one third of maternal deaths in Bolivia, which has among the highest rates of maternal mortality in Latin America.
The large volume of unwanted pregnancies is also closely tied to sexual violence, which victimizes seven out of ten Bolivian women (the second-highest rate in Latin America, after Haiti).
Studies also cite an “alarming number” of procedural investigations (775 cases in the La Paz and Santa Cruz districts alone, between 2008 and 2012) against women suspected of having an illegal abortion, who are overwhelmingly poor and indigenous.
Instigated by health care providers, relatives, and public prosecutors, these complaints typically languish for years in the judicial system, although relatively few have led to criminal convictions. (Under the law, the act of undergoing, performing, or abetting an illegal abortion is punishable by a prison term of one to six years.)
Reproductive rights activists say that complaints are often used to harass and intimidate women.
In one high-profile case, an indigenous Guaraní rape victim spent eight months in preventive detention before obtaining a release for the balance of her remaining two-year sentence.
The MAS government leadership, which typically closes ranks in public, has been openly divided on the issue.
While President Evo Morales has stated his personal belief that abortion is a crime, five cabinet ministers (including three women) have affirmed their support for decriminalization.
The original case challenging the constitutionality of the restrictive abortion law was brought by indigenous MAS deputy Patricia Mancilla (in her personal capacity).
The TCP ruling is the latest in a growing trend of judicial and legislative actions that are reducing barriers to legal abortion in Latin America, a region with some of the world’s most restrictive reproductive rights laws.
In late 2013, Uruguay voted to allow early stage abortions without restriction, joining four others (Cuba, Puerto Rico, Guyana, and French Guiana) along with Mexico City that have largely decriminalized abortion.
Six Latin American countries (Argentina, Colombia, Peru, Guatemala, Venezuela, and Ecuador) allow therapeutic abortions under circumstances similar to Bolivia.
In seven countries (Chile, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras, Haiti, Suriname, and the Dominican Republic), abortion remains totally prohibited.
While the new ruling will not put an end to unsafe abortions, Bolivia’s reproductive rights advocates are optimistic that it will make legal abortions easier, quicker, and more widely available.
“For women, it’s an advance,” says Patricia Mancilla .
“But the struggle is just beginning.”
Analysts Warn about Fragility of Peace in Macedonia · Global Voices
Protests erupted in Skopje in July 2014, after the sentencing of six ethnic Albanian men for what authorities labeled "terrorist killings".
Photo by Sinisa Jakov Marusic.
Courtesy of BIRN © 2014, used with permission.
Austrian political scientist and blogger Florian Bieber recently provided an overview of the troubling inter-ethnic situation in Macedonia in article titled "Macedonia on the Brink".
Bieber's in-depth piece provides a window into the aftermath of the recent series of initially violent ethnic clashes in Macedonia and peaceful protests.
The protests were sparked by ethnic tension due to the sentencing of six Albanian Macedonian men for what authorities called the "terrorist killing" of five people in 2012.
In his article, Bieber emphasizes:
Authoritarian tendencies, ethno-nationalist state-building and segregation of the two largest communities make for a combustible mix.
Even if the protests have died down, Macedonia is probably the only country of the former Yugoslavia where ethnic violence remains a real risk.
Decision-makers in the region continue to use sporadic incidents as incitement for what is often clearly hate speech, as well as for propaganda against several civil society organizations that have publicly warned about the use of xenophobic fear as a smokescreen for other issues in the country, such as government corruption.
Local political analyst Mersel Bilalli provided a gloomy projection for Macedonia's troubles shortly after the 2014 anniversary of signing the Ohrid Framework Agreement, an agreement signed between the Macedonian government and representatives of the country's Albanian minority in 2001 to end the armed conflict between the militant National Liberation Army and the Macedonian security forces, also setting the groundwork for improving the rights of ethnic Albanians in the country.
As Bilalli pointed out:
The Ohrid Framework Agreement successfully extinguished the fire of 2001, but even after 13 years it failed to create any micron of what is called – tolerance, coexistence, civic equality, equal opportunities, democratic governance, rule of law and general development.
On the contrary, we have demotion.
So now instead of lasting reconciliation we have naked hatred.
Instead of tolerance we have fights on buses and streets.
Instead of cohesion we have demolition of houses and bars.
Instead of the rule of law we have the rule of parties. Instead of general development, we have the top position in the list of world poverty.
Instead of independent judiciary, we have party ruled verdicts and rigged trials.
Everything is in free fall.
Only organized crime is upwards.
We have made a society without laws, without morals, without a curtain and shame.
Western Media Is Obsessed With Kurdish Female Fighters Battling ISIS · Global Voices
Two armed female members of the YPJ, a group affiliated with the People's Protection Units (YPG), walks around the base near Ras al-Ayn, a Kurdish town located in northern Syria. 11 October 2013.
Photo by Younes Mohammad.
Copyright Demotix
Women fighting in the ranks of the armed Kurdish forces have come into the spotlight as ISIS has made large territorial gains in Mosul, one of the largest cities in Iraq, and battled to take control of the autonomous Kurdish canton of Kobane on the border of Turkey.
International media agencies and activists alike have pushed images of female Peshmerga in their coverage and on social networking sites.
The idea of women in uniform, heavily armed, fearless and fighting alongside men seems to be enticing, perhaps even captivating because it is perceived to be one of the strongest messages of defiance in the face of ISIS — a notoriously brutal Al Qaeda offshoot responsible for mass killing of Iraqi soldiers, Syrian soldiers, aid workers, journalists and the kidnapping, rape and forced marriage of women.
In the group's Mosul manifesto, ISIS requires the confinement of women to their homes, unless absolutely necessary.
It seems not a day passes without these images of female fighters being shared.
The truth is, contrary to the sudden surge of attention, Kurdish women are not new to the battlefield.
Arguably all the battles Kurds have fought historically have been either side by side with women, and/or with the complicity of women as caretakers at home, raising a new generation, taking care of domestic affairs, earning a livelihood and so on.
What is Your Carbon Footprint? · Global Voices
Image from blog Esturirafi.
Used with permission.
Today it is becoming increasingly common to hear about climate change, a topic everybody talks about but are rarely aware of its real impact.
We've heard many times that we are all contributing to the destruction of the planet, but how can we know the footprint we are leaving behind?
This is the question that Ruth Abrain Sanchez asks on her blog: What is this for
With Homes and Infrastructure Destroyed, a Tough Winter Lies Ahead for Gaza · Global Voices
Winter is coming to Gaza, where some 100,000 people have been left homeless.
On Twitter, @NourAlghussein says: "winter is on the doors here .and Gaza is still besieged >there's no materials to rebuild these houses #BreakGazaSiege"
After the intense destruction caused by this summer's war, thousands of Gazans are left with insufficient resources to brave winter's coming cold.
The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) reported in October 2014 that an estimated 20,000 homes were destroyed, displacing 100,000 people.
Refugees either live with host families or in collective centers, like schools.
On Twitter, the first rains of autumn spurred concern for the refugees' future.
If You Want To See How People In #Gaza Spend The Winter This Year Here Is A Sample For You Sir/Madam ...#Gaza #Winter pic.twitter.com/DFvnoXGcc0 — Salah AlQady (@salah_alqady) October 19, 2014
Heavy rains in #Gaza.
First winter storm to hit since the end of war, with thousands of families displaced or living in damaged homes — Fares Akram (@faresakram) October 19, 2014
Blogger Omar Ghraieb, who is based in Gaza, wrote:
It hasnt stopped raining since the morning & I havent stopped praying & thinking about displaced & homeless people here & everywhere. #Gaza — Omar Ghraieb (@Omar_Gaza) October 19, 2014
Later that day, he added:
#Photo: Displaced Palestinians in #KhanYounis trying to stop rain floods 4m washing away their tents\caravans! #Gaza pic.twitter.com/et1I5oWAby — Omar Ghraieb (@Omar_Gaza) October 19, 2014
Posting these photographs when the rain finished, he tweeted:
#Photo: Despite destruction, a rainbow bows over #Gaza shyly after a day of heavy rain washing pain & souls. pic.twitter.com/0dvEX3vKAs — Omar Ghraieb (@Omar_Gaza) October 19, 2014
In an article entitled, "No Shelter from Winter Rain for Thousands in Gaza," collective blog Electronic Intifada's Rami Almeghari reported:
hundreds of families whose homes were bombed by Israel lack basic infrastructure, including electricity and access to water, and remain in metal caravan shelters or at United Nations-run schools.
Heavy rainstorms have recently swept through Gaza, further damaging the electricity, water and sewage networks.
“These people had no chance to be safe during the rains … it’s alarming for the whole population of the Gaza Strip, particularly those who have been displaced.
The winter will be a difficult time for these residents," Almeghari explained Though international donors have promised reconstruction aid, the physical process of reconstruction has not yet started.
“These people have been waiting since the war ended in August for the reconstruction to take place," Almeghari said
Numerous crowdsourced donation campaigns have also arisen.
A selection of these are as follows.
An Indiegogo campaign by the Al-Rahma Society will provide winter clothing to refugee children.
At time of writing, more than US$3,300 had been pledged of the $5,000 sought in funding:
Make Gaza children's winter warmer is the name of our campaign in which we advertise our message for the world to donate for our campaign, we try to collect money to buy the clothes for the children.
When we receive any money we will start making deals with clothes stores, and prepare cards for the children to come and choose their needs.
We will try to offer 50$ for each child.
On Go Get Funding, a user only identified as Abu Yazan has established a campaign called Help Gaza This Winter, raising $1,871 so far.
The author writes:
Winter is coming for Gaza and this year its different than the years before. Winter this year will be hard since thousands of houses in Gaza are totally or partially destroyed and over 100,000 Palestinians are left homeless...
The campaign appears to be associated with Gaza Youth Breaks Out, an anonymous Palestinian youth group that describes itself on Facebook as a "political party," as it links to them on the campaign page and they promote the project in this tweet: Winter in #Gaza will be hard and your help is needed..
The Save Gaza Project is running two simultaneous campaigns on Go Fund Me and Indiegogo. On Indiegogo, the campaign to provide backpacks and school supplies to children has raised 9,800 British pounds (about US$14,800) of its 15,000-pound goal, and on Go Fund Me, it has raised 5,200 pounds, 200 pounds over its original goal.
The organization works in coordination with the Al-Tawheed Society in Gaza to distribute funds.
On Facebook, Palestine Loves Israel encourages donations to Gaza through Caritas, a well-respected international aid organization, writing:
As winter is about to come in the Middle East, many Gazans are still without proper shelter and suffer from a severe lack of warm clothes, blankets and other goods.
I contacted Caritas Israel again to see weather they are still delivering goods to Gaza.
They do...
We recommend Caritas because they have been proven trustworthy and reliable more than many others that we checked so far, and they are working with local officials from the red cross and red crescent. http://www.caritas-germany.org/internationalaid/donations
During Israel's offensive in Gaza, 40 percent of Gaza's urban area was reduced to rubble, according to some estimates.
Israel attacked the only power plant in Gaza on July 28, plunging the congested strip of 1.8 million people into darkness while putting its limited water and sanitation infrastructure under crippling stress.
On August 26, 2014, Israel and the Palestinian factions agreed to halt fighting indefinitely, putting an end to seven weeks of catastrophic destruction and loss of life.
At least 2,100 Palestinians were killed, more than 10,500 injured, and 520,000 displaced during Israel 's massive offensive Protective Edge against the 40-kilometer-long coastal strip.
Follow our in-depth coverage: Indefinite Ceasefire War-Battered #Gaza The photo included in the first tweet in the article was used widely over social media tagged with #Gaza and #Palestine, but its origin is unknown.
If you know the original source, kindly provide it in the comments section below.
The citation of these campaigns does not signify the author's endorsement.
The campaigns included in this post are examples of those mentioned on social media.
There are many other funding opportunities available if you would like to support the people of Gaza through registered nonprofits.
16 Days to Campaign Against Gender Violence · Global Voices
From the campaign website.
To encourage action against violence in general and gender violence in particular, the Center of Women’s Global Leadership (CWGL), based at Rutgers University in the US, has launched a 16 day campaign "From Peace in the Home to Peace in the World”.
Starting November 25, campaign participants "will highlight the systemic nature of gender-based violence and militarism which encourages inequality and discrimination”.
Global Voices Online will be participating in this campaign; we will publish stories, debates and conversations on social media around the world about violence in society and violence against women.
The campaign also aims to raise awareness around the fact that most governments designate weapon spending more urgent and important, than funding projects devoted to education, equality and safer public spaces.
Despite recognition of gender based violence as a public health issue and a human rights concern by international organizations, the low priority given in international development agendas continues to be alarmingly low.
According to the World Health Organization:
Violence against women - particularly intimate partner violence and sexual violence against women - are major public health problems and violations of women's human rights.
Recent global prevalence figures indicate that 35% of women worldwide have experienced either intimate partner violence or non-partner sexual violence in their lifetime.
On average, 30% of women who have been in a relationship report that they have experienced some form of physical or sexual violence by their partner.
Globally, as many as 38% of murders of women are committed by an intimate partner.
Violence can result in physical, mental, sexual, reproductive health and other health problems, and may increase vulnerability to HIV.
Risk factors for being a perpetrator include low education, exposure to child maltreatment or witnessing violence in the family, harmful use of alcohol, attitudes accepting of violence and gender inequality.
Risk factors for being a victim of intimate partner and sexual violence include low education, witnessing violence between parents, exposure to abuse during childhood and attitudes accepting violence and gender inequality.
In high-income settings, school-based programmes to prevent relationship violence among young people (or dating violence) are supported by some evidence of effectiveness.
In low-income settings, other primary prevention strategies, such as microfinance combined with gender equality training and community-based initiatives that address gender inequality and communication and relationship skills, hold promise.
Situations of conflict, post conflict and displacement may exacerbate existing violence and present additional forms of violence against women.
To broaden strategies and engage different groups, CWGL is launching the campaign on the International Day to end Gender-based Violence (Nov 25) with the Day of Human Rights (Dec 10):
The intersectionality of age, class, gender, geographic location, race/ethnicity, religious affiliation, sexual orientation among other categories of analysis inform the ways in which women experience and respond to violence, inequality, and discrimination.
They also affect the ways in which communities and the States respond since States’ relations with the people are mediated in part through the above categories Integral to a world free of gender-based violence where all are able to experience freedom from fear and want is, in part, the recognition of the indivisibility of human rights, and that women’s rights are human rights.
The campaign has identified three priority areas of action: Violence perpetrated by state actors, proliferation of small arms in cases of intimate partner violence, and sexual violence during and after conflict.
For each area, the page of the campaign suggests different types of strategies to raise awareness and participate in the struggle against these abuses.
Online Campaign to Support Russian LGBT Teens Is Charged with 'Gay Propaganda' · Global Voices
Violence and arrests take over LGBT rally.
St. Petersburg, October 12, 201, photo by Roma Yandolin.
This week, Russian authorities dealt what may be the greatest blow to LGBT rights advocates since Vladimir Putin signed into law the infamous ban on “gay propaganda in the vicinity of minors.”
As of this week, Children-404 has piqued the interests of the Russian police, who asked Klimova, among other things, if the group publishes photographs of naked children—it does not.
Three days after the police visit, Klimova received a message informing her that Roscomnadzor, Russia’s Federal Communications Commission equivalent, has determined that Children-404 violates Russia’s “gay propaganda” ban.
She is expected to appear at a Roscomnadzor office on November 18 to find out what legal penalties she will face—under Russian law, as an organization, Children-404 could be fined more than $20,000.
Klimova says she fears, in the worst possible scenario, that authorities might pursue additional charges against her, in order to put her in prison.
Police launched the case against Children-404 in part because of a complaint by Anna Levchenko, leader of a project—once praised by Vladimir Putin—that claims to fight sexual violence against minors.
In practice, however, the group appears to function as a cover for persecuting those who reach out to gay youths.
In late October, Levchenko formally asked Russia’s Attorney General to investigate Children-404’s Vkontakte page for violations of the country's "gay propaganda" ban.
Lena Klimova, Facebook.
Writing on LiveJournal, Children-404 founder Klimova implies she will challenge Roscomnadzor’s ruling in court, but doesn’t show much optimism about the chances of overturning the decision.
She concludes her LJ post on a note of desperation, saying,
WHAT TO DO NOW?
Life goes on.
Is there any point in writing letters to Roscomnadzor (as our opponents love to do) saying that our project is useful, important, needed, and helpful to people?
I don’t know.
Is there any point in starting a petition or staging a protest?
In the end, everybody does what they think is necessary, and that’s how it’ll be.
It is hard to underestimate the chilling effect the crackdown on Children-404 might have.
The LGBT community is one of the least respected, most maligned groups in Russian society.
Targeting Children-404 will undoubtedly discourage many LGBT youths in Russia from seeking support during adolescence, when they often need it most.
The attack on Children-404 might even deprive some young people of help that could prevent them from harming themselves.
Ironically, Roscomnadzor is supposed to protect children from Internet trends associated with suicide.
The war on gays, it seems, trumps that mission.
Waited All Year for That Christmas Cake?
If You're in Japan, Welcome to the Butter Shortage · Global Voices
There are fears Christmas in Japan may become linked with canola-base margarine.
Photo by David Schofield, February 24, 2011.
CC 2.0.
Japan is in the midst of a butter shortage, which may have terrible consequences for lovers of a traditional winter treat in Japan, the Christmas cake.
Attention: Christmas has been postponed.
Due to a critical shortage of butter in Japan, it may not be possible to buy traditional Christmas cakes in Japan this holiday season.
In Japan, while Christmas Day itself is not a holiday, Christmas Eve is traditionally observed by eating roast or deep-fried chicken and eating Christmas cake.
Japanese Christmas cake is typically a sponge cake or shortcake, topped with strawberries and liberal amounts of whipped cream.
Butter cream is also an important topping:
There were some 82,000 dairy-farming households in fiscal 1985, raising around 2.11 million domestic animals.
The figures have dropped since then, however, and the number of farmers this fiscal year totals around 19,000, with some 1.4 million animals.
In just five years from fiscal 2009, the volume of raw milk production has dropped by about 5 percent, from 7.88 million metric tons to 7.45 million tons.
(For those interested, this NHK backgrounder, in Japanese, has more information about the challenges facing butter producers in Japan.)
Despite the imports, butter still seems to sell out quickly.
Wow, they really have no butter for sale.
The shortage in the leadup to Christmas has coined a new Internet meme in Japan: Butter Refugees.
There isn't any butter! (ﾟДﾟ) "Butter refugees" from all over Japan are taking to Twitter to tweet about the crisis.
NAVER Matome aggregates it all here: http://t.co/HltjvzTH6g
I thought the butter shortage was just a temporary thing, but the more I research the more it seems like it is a serious problem.
Many Twitter users are waking up to the fact that the butter shortage will indeed affect Christmas.
It's coming up to Christmas and butter has vanished from my neighbourhood supermarket.
While this looks like it will be a chronic problem, I just hope we can somehow get through the Christmas season.
Not all is lost for those who need butter to create the perfect Christmas Cake, however. There are a variety of Japanese-language YouTube videos that explain how to make butter from scratch.
Several local NGOs are now hard at work, launching projects to help rebuild Mali's social cohesion and restore peace.
This is the story of one of these projects, Living Together ("Vivre ensemble"), and its efforts in Timbuktu.
Living Together is a book club by PAT-MALI (the Program to Support the Transition in Mali), which promotes a culture of tolerance and freedom at Timbuktu's secondary schools.
In late November, Living Together gathered 32 teachers from various disciplines for a training workshop about how to set up book clubs in high schools. The project hopes to procure 320 eReaders for teachers and book-club members.
What follows is a photo report by the author of these words, with images from one of the workshops described above.
The moderators of the workshop on tolerance in Timbuktu.
An ongoing workshop with teachers. Zineb Benalla was the team leader for most of the training workshops in Timbuktu.
She is a research associate at the Arab Institute for Scientific Research and Human Sciences in Rabat, Morocco.
One participant shares his experience with members of the project.
Teachers were delighted to receive the eReaders, especially after al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb demolished all the city's libraries between April 2012 and January 2013. (The French army eventually helped remove al-Qaeda from the region.)
Participants during a teachers' workshop in Timbuktu, Mali.
Using eReaders could lead to curious reforms in local education, possibly curbing teachers' notorious "red pen" methods of covering text in criticism and revisions. With eReaders, some expect teachers to do more "facilitating" and "thematic leading" than before, hopefully promoting more discussion among students.
Explaining the project "Living Together" in Mali.
eReaders showcased at the workshop.
Zineb Benalla leads a workshop.
Given the city's rich cultural history and the oppressive regime it endured from 2012 to 2013, these workshops could prove to be a catharsis for many residents, still living with the trauma of Timbuktu under al-Qaeda.
China Touts Local Ground Rules for the Global Internet · Global Voices
World Internet Conference, by Badiucao for China Digital Times.
Wuzhen, China's futuristic town in the Zhejiang province, said hello and goodbye to the World Internet Conference last week.
Many, of course, find it ironic that China—where the government blocks hundreds of foreign websites—hosted a summit about the World Wide Web, but local commentators seemed unfazed.
Several speakers at the conference even argued that the outside world must accept China's confidence in its Internet regulations and understand that foreign businesses cannot profit in China without obeying local laws.
Conference attendees enjoyed special, temporary access to hundreds of blocked websites overseas.
But throughout the rest of the country, the Chinese government stepped up censorship efforts.
Edgecast, one of the world's largest content delivery networks (CDNs), experienced a DNS "poisoning" attack which left thousands of websites and mobile apps inoperable across China.
GreatFire.org, a website devoted to monitoring online censorship in China, claims the Chinese authorities are risking massive "collateral damage" by disrupting access to large numbers of apolitical sites in order to protect the state's sovereignty over the domestic network.
For example, the attack on Edgecast inadvertently blocked Sony Mobile's global and Chinese sites, The Atlantic, Drupal.org, Gravatar, and others.
According to China's official media, hosting the Internet conference was an effort to "show confidence in sharing China's opinion on how to face online threats and how to enhance international cooperation online."
China's confidence, no doubt, comes largely from its enormous market of 632 million Internet users, 527 million of whom access the Web using mobile devices.
Statisticians project there will be 850 million Internet users in China by 2015.
Many interpret China's Internet confidence to signal the country's growing determination to impose a Chinese approach to Internet governance worldwide.
Su Xinghe, a Chinese commentator on tech news, says of China's new assertiveness:
Authoritarian power is good at using the Internet to monitor people.
When compared with the United States' loose control over the Net, China is more organized and disciplined.
In the past 20 years, so many rules and regulations have been implemented The Internet is considered to be at the forefront of China's ideological struggle.
The rise of state-sponsored celebrities like Zhou Xiaoping and state-sponsored websites like "Phoenix" demonstrate that the authorities have launched a campaign to "occupy the Web" with the Chinese Communist Party's red tradition and "positive energy as praise" to help suppress anti-Chinese and Western values, like freedom and democracy.
By controlling Internet resources and content platforms, the authorities fill the Web with the kind of content they want people to see, similar to the posters that covered every street corner during the Cultural Revolution.
The objective is to brainwash people and use political pressure to make them submissive.
Hosting the World Internet Conference, China's authorities can legitimize its practice in official language and further repress dissents.
In what was likely a Freudian slip, state-sponsored online celebrity Hua Qianfang praised China's "big-nation confidence" as "Sima Zhao's mind", a Chinese idiomatic expression used to describe a hidden and immoral intention of usurping the throne or seizing power.
During the World Internet Conference, many Chinese netizens repeated the idiom to mock the authorities' hidden intention.
In Chinese, the whole expression reads, "Everyone on the street knows what's in Sima Zhao's mind."
The hidden intention is implied, and left unsaid.
In fact, the director of China's State Internet Information Office, Lu Wei, said in the World Economic Forum, (via the China Digital Times):
Freedom and order are twin sisters, and they must live together The same principle applies to security.
So we must have a public order .
And this public order cannot impact any particular local order.
What we cannot permit, is the taking advantage of China’s market, of profiting from Chinese money, but doing damage to China.
This will absolutely not be permitted.
It is unacceptable to harm China’s interests, to harm China’s security, or to harm the interests of China’s consumers.
Assuming respect for this bottom line any internet company is welcome in China.
The DNS attack on Edgecast and its "collateral damage" to thousands of business websites thus amounts to what Liu Wei says is China's determination to maintain "local order," despite certain economic costs.
As China's role online grows and it becomes a key player in the shaping of global Internet governance, its approach to sovereignty still worries human rights activists.
William Nee, a China researcher at Amnesty International, urged international business leaders to speak out about online freedom at the Conference, but the subject unfortunately didn't make the program.
As digital sovereignty continues to shape the future of Internet governance, it seems it will be left to local civil society to play a more significant role in China's fight for an open and free Internet.
India's Loud, Messy, Not-So-Happy Diwali Celebrations · Global Voices
Indians light crackers to celebrate diwali, the festival of light on a busy road in Allahabad on October 23, 2014.
Image by Ritesh Shukla.
During Diwali (the Hindu "festival of lights"), people dress up in new clothes—sometimes their best outfits—and light up lamps and candles inside and outside their homes, participating in prayers and launching fireworks.
It's a noisy affair that produces a lot of pollution.
Despite a sustained anti-firecracker campaign, calls for a more environmentally conscious Green Diwali, an attempt to crack down on Chinese fireworks, and a 10pm-curfew, Indians didn't stay away from pyrotechnics anymore this year than last.
As a result, the holiday once again made breathing difficult across the nation.
For years, India has discussed efforts to make the country's top cities as globally appealing as China's metropolises.
For the next few days, India will actually obtain parity with China's biggest cities: in pollution levels! not urban efficiency or infrastructural sophistication.
Thanks to Diwali, sound and air pollution in India has reached alarming levels.
On Twitter, Indians have issued public appeals to reduce pollution on Diwali:
Let's celebrate Green Diwali ...Join Human Chain with @AAPYouthwing at CP by 4PM Today & Say no to crackers pic.twitter.com/CtrKqfxWpq — Kumar Amit (@Ikumar7) October 19, 2014
Diwali in India will not be noise and pollution free till we inculcate a sense of belonging,sense of ownership+concern & respect for others — Kiran Bedi (@thekiranbedi) October 24, 2014 Have a safe and noise-free Diwali.
In one of the biggest states in India, Madhya Pradesh, pollution even seems to be affecting the weather.
Due to an absence of winds, the smog left by fireworks is expected to remain in the air for another 48 hours.
Image by Ritesh Shukla.
Mumbai, for example, has struggled with noise levels above 80dB. Diwali's environmental impact doesn't end with bad air and loud noises, either.
Some encouraging data suggests that people are changing the way they celebrate Diwali. Several regions in Mumbai, Madhya Pradesh, and Pune recorded pollution levels this year that are actually lower than in previous years. While toxicity is still higher than doctors recommend, the data indicates that awareness campaigns in schools are finally making a difference.
Indeed, firecracker manufacturers reported falling sales this year (down by 60-70 percent!)—a drastic decline, and welcome news for India's environmentalists.
Earthen oil lamps outside a house in Delhi during Diwali celebrations.
Image by Prabhjot Kaur.
Here's hoping environmental awareness continues to spread in India and alternative celebrations catch on!
Chinese Fishermen Are Poaching Coral From Japanese Waters · Global Voices
Tako-iwa (Octopus Rock), Nakoudojima Island, Ogasawara.
Photo by Flickr user Froschmann.
In recent years, autumn has marked territorial disputes between China and Japan.
In 2014, the battle has shifted to illegal coral harvesting in Japanese waters.
Hundreds of fishing boats with Chinese markings have been spotted — often at close range — near islands stretching thousands of kilometers south of Tokyo over the past few months.
Illegal coral harvesting is occurring in the subtropical, ecologically diverse Ogasawara and Bonin islands that make up a remote, sparsely populated archipelago that lies about 1,000 kilometers south Tokyo.
It's thought the boats are illegally harvesting red coral, which can be sold for thousands of dollars per kilogram. Illegal coral harvesters off of Ogasawara.
While Japan is often considered a small, cramped country, in reality it stretches from far-flung territories such as the Ogasawara and Bonin islands in the far south, to remote islets far to the west of Okinawa Prefecture. The expansiveness of the country's maritime borders makes it difficult for Japan to assert its sovereignty and prevent overfishing.
However, when they drag for coral they snag everything off the seabed, including bottom fish, as well as other coral and rocks that make up the habitat, destroying everything. Beautiful coral that has taken years for nature to create are being uprooted.
The maritime ecosystem of the sea around the Bonin Islands is being destroyed.
It's thought that many of the fishing vessels collecting coral illegally in the sea around Japan originate in Xiangshan County in Zhejiang Province, China.
However, in the face of such a widespread problem, there are few tools and resources to deal with the problem.
Fine for coral poaching, too cheap, debate underway to drastically increase penalties; request sent to China to take preventative measures.
(Yahoo!
News / Sankei Shimbun) Government coalition partners discuss massive influx of illegal coral harvesters in seas off Ogasawara Islands.
The recent APEC summit in China provided an opportunity for Japan and China to address the problem. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe discussed the issue directly with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Abe makes direct appeal to Xi about issue of illegal coral harvesting on.wsj.com/1xrDOyX (Reuters)
Indeed, following the APEC summit, even the American government strongly condemned illegal coral harvesting in Japanese territorial waters (starting at 00:00:35): Coast guard vessels are now working at driving off and sometimes seizing the coral poachers.
The relationship between the Chinese government and the fishermen is complicated. On the one hand, it is very difficult for the Chinese government to control and manage its fishermen and stop them from fishing illegally; on the other hand, fishermen do not always trust government officials.
In the latest anti-corruption campaign in Hainan, a dozen officials from China’s fishery administration were arrested for stealing or appropriating fishermen’s fuel subsidies.
With no solution in sight, the helplessness and frustration of Japanese netizens has resulted in outrage and in black humor.
Earlier in November a powerful typhoon passing through the Ogasawara and Bonin Islands momentarily curtailed illegal coral harvesting, prompting a fairly popular meme on Twitter and elsewhere in social media:
Typhoon warning: Typhoon 20 with wind speeds of 65 meter per second in Ogasawara Islands makes a direct hit on illegal coral harvesters. http://t.co/k0SuuZj7l0 http://t.co/4C7DOP3Sno Perhaps this is a kamikaze "divine wind"? pic.twitter.com/a4dj3GEhBI
AIDS Activist Freed After Kidnapping in Honduras · Global Voices
Keren Jemima Dunaway González, a teenage Honduran Aids activist who was abducted in the city of San Pedro Sula on Tuesday has been released.
Three unidentified men grabbed Keren, 18, with her mother near the offices of the Llaves Foundation, which helps children with AIDS.
González, the head of Llaves, was freed, but Keren remains captive.
Police said her captors had asked for ransom but had released her after her mother assured them the family had no money.
San Pedro Sula remains one of the most violent cities in the world and has the world's highest homicide rate at 187 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2014.
Sketch Comic Faces Accusations of 'Glorifying' Terrorism in Spain · Global Voices
Catalan-Uruguayan satirist Facu Díaz is being taken to court for questioning over a satirical sketch from his online TV comedy show, Tuerka News.
Spain's National High Court ordered Facu Díaz to appear in court on January 15, 2015.
The satirist could face charges under a Spanish law that criminalizes the "glorification of terrorism" with a punishment of up to two years in prison.
The summons was issued after the terror victims' association Dignity & Justice filed a complaint about the sketch on November 8, 2014.
In an official statement published by La Tuerka online, Facu Díaz said he suspected that the case may have been prompted by his connection to Pablo Iglesias, spokesman and Secretary General of Spain's new alternative political party, Podemos, who is also a host of the La Tuerka show.
Díaz stated that he did not intend to offend anyone, but apologised nevertheless.
He explained further: "I think a satirist must take you to places where you've never been," and added: "Is there any topic about which we shouldn't make jokes?
No, there is nothing we shouldn't joke about, it all depends on what the joke is."
La Tuerka's popularity has grown, as has that of Pablo Iglesias as a political figure.
Though it is mostly broadcast online, it also can be watched on TDT through Tele K, an independent channel with a strong social and activist connection.
In the three-and-a-half-minute sketch, Facu Díaz covers his face with a black balaclava, in reference to traditional spokesmen put forth by the Basque Euskadi Ta Askatasuna separatist militant organization, commonly known as the ETA.
Díaz announces the end of the Popular Party due to "all that has happened in the last 20 years," referring to the many corruption cases of its members.
The video includes statements like "we have decided to stop our armed activity and hand over our weapons," and the demand to move the PP corruption prisoners to places "like Andorra or other places with good food," alluding to ETA's demands of transferring their members to prisons in the Basque Country.
The fake PP's spokesman also asks for "a ceasefire from far left-wing political groups," in a clear reference to Podemos.
The sketch does not make any reference to individuals who have been killed by the ETA.
However, the terror victims' association that filed the complaint argues that it "clearly constituted humiliation, harassment, contempt, detriment and ridicule of terror victims and their families."
It is ironic that Facu Díaz received the news just one day after the attack on French satiric magazine Charlie Hebdo, while Spanish President Mariano Rajoy was showing his "support of freedom of expression" on behalf of the Spanish government and people.
On Twitter, the hashtag #YoConFacu (I’m With Facu) is being used to show support for the satirist and defend freedom of expression.
Díaz has stated that he will continue to make satire in the future.
Documenting the Struggles of Papuans in Indonesia · Global Voices
Papuan Voices is a video advocacy initiative that highlights the struggles of the people of West Papua, a province of Indonesia.
West Papua has been struggling to be an independent state although this conflict from Indonesia is not widely reported in the media.
Another Celebrity Wants to Help Africa, And He's No 'Band Aid' · Global Voices
Akon in West Africa for his electrify project with permission
Since the Live Aid Event organized by Bob Geldof and a bunch of his famous friends in the mid-1980s, Africa has known many world-famous celebrities who show a willingness to help the continent.
Most of these initiatives, however, have fallen well short of their stated objectives.
For many in Africa, the Ebola epidemic has made clear the gap between celebrities' awareness-raising campaigns and realities on the ground, where "parachuted initiatives" by Western stars collapse after brief runs in the global news.
By now, the limits of humanitarian work by such celebrities—indeed Western humanitarian work generally—are well documented.
"Band Aid 30″'s remake of "Do They Know It's Christmas," for example, does little to expand—let alone acknowledge—Africans' agency in the fight against Ebola.
Contrasted with the song "Africa, Stop Ebola," created by African artists including Tiken Jah Fakoly, Amadou, and Mariam and Salif Keita, it's hard to deny the difference in tone.
Despite Band Aid 30's good intentions, Africans have long been offended by the patronizing tone of the "Do They Know It's Christmas" song's adapted lyrics.
(The updated song includes lines like, "Where a kiss of love can kill you and there's death in every tear," "Well tonight we're reaching out and touching you," and so on.)
On the other hand, the lyrics of the Africa Stop Ebola song emphasizes what citizens in the affected region can do to help stop the spread of Ebola.
The song is performed in French and vernacular languages (Haoussa, Fula etc.) widely spoken across the region to ensure that the message is understood by the majority of the population in the affected region.
Amidst Band Aid 30's campaign and the backlash in Africa, a far lesser known initiative is getting underway: a project by American singer Akon, who has family ties to Senegal, to help electrify West Africa.
Akon, whose full name is Aliaune Damala Bouga Time Bongo Puru Nacka Lu Lu Lu Badara Akon Thiam, spent much of his childhood in Senegal and was ranked Africa's fifth most powerful celebrity in 2011 (on a list that included 40 names).
In a video on Vimeo, Akon explains his electrification project:
He adds:
The lack of electricity is currently a major problem in Africa.
A significant number of households in rural areas and even urban cities do not have access to electricity.
This is a real obstacle to Africa’s Sustainable Development.
In that perspective and within the framework of a Public-Private partnership, an alliance was signed between the private entities and the governments of different African nations to support the initiative.
The project will consist of the installation of solar equipment in households and promote their energy sufficiency that also will allow millions of children to have access to electricity and improve their education through extended study hours.
Akon's project is planned to be long-term, separating it from the one-off efforts often carried out in Africa that typically require large advertising campaigns.
Akon's work is not directed at a Western audience, and it isn't an awareness-raising campaign.
He is currently on an extended trip through West Africa, where he's meeting local entrepreneurs and political decisionmakers.
He will visit nine different countries: Senegal, Mali, Guinea Conakry, Gambia, Burkina Faso, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Congo and Côte d'Ivoire.
In Guinea, Akon met with students at the Gamal Abdel Nasser University in Conakry and said:
I'm also a businessman, but I want to do business that benefits Africa all the resources needed to develop Africa are at the disposal of the continent, and that all Africans needed to do is to take the driving seat.
In Cotonou, Benin, Arnaud Dounhmanmoun writes:
In Benin, an experimental phase is already underway—implemented in the village of Avlo in the Grand Popo region.
The artist will be there to collect materials: solar kits for households, and solar lamps for street lighting.
In Mali, Modibo Fofana on Journal du Mali says Akon is also helping change the image of Africa with investors, despite the Ebola crisis:
After a visit to Guinea, Akon arrived in Mali as it reported its first case .
According Akon, media coverage of the disease in Africa unfairly tarnishes the continent's public image.
"It's up to us to change Africa's image.
When people see that I'm in Mali, despite the announcement of Ebola, this will reassure others."
While it is too early to tell whether Akon's approach will bear more fruitful results than the overhyped Band Aid initiative, at least, Akon has focused on the potential for Africa to self-sustain its development rather than wait for the ever-elusive western saviors.
Is the 'Sky Cycle' Japan's Weirdest Theme-Park Ride? · Global Voices
The Great Seto Bridge, looking south towards Takamatsu on Shikoku.
Image: Nevin Thompson.
If you're looking for a breathtaking view and aren't afraid of heights, the "Sky Cycle" in Okayama Prefecture's Brazilian Washuzan Highland park is definitely worth a ride.
Photos of the Sky Cycle have been appearing on Twitter recently, thanks likely to the striking image found below of a tandem bicycle overlooking the park from an elevated railway. The view from the Sky Cycle ride in Okayama's Brazilian Park Washuzan Highland: pic.twitter.com/5JBIgCyUgd — Mulboyne (@Mulboyne) November 17, 2014
The soaring, slightly scary Sky Cycle ride, with its magnificent view, is perfect fodder for Japanese prime time television: Caption: The fearsome Sky Cycle of Washuzan
While Brazil's connection to the area (and hence the name) remains unclear, it is worth nothing that many Brazilians of Japanese ancestry were recruited to work in nearby industrial areas.
Japan's countryside is dotted with large amusement parks, many bearing ethnic themes, that date back to the affluent years of the Bubble era.
International travel was still a novelty for many Japanese people then, and ethnically named theme parks provided a glimpse of foreign cultures without the expense of traveling abroad.
The remote area of Niigata, for example, was once home to the Kashiwazaki Turkish Culture Village.
Meanwhile, visitors to Nagasaki in Japan's far west could visit a theme park filled with life-size replicas of Dutch heritage buildings.
It's also customary in Japan to include an amusement part at prominent national landmarks like the Great Seto Bridge.
Even Mount Fuji has its own park, Fuji-Q Highland.
There, thrill-seekers can gaze upon Mount Fuji's slopes as they endure punishing g-forces aboard the park's famed roller coasters.
We made it to Fuji-Q! @tamiho_29
Okayama Prefecture's Brazilian Washuzan Highland seems to take the cake, however.
Japanese Internet users are dubbing it the world's weirdest theme park.
Washington's $60 Million for Russian Democracy Promotion Is 'Essentially a Recommendation' · Global Voices
Obama and Putin meet outside Moscow, July 7, 2009.
Official White House Photo by Pete Souza.
The United States enacted a new law yesterday called the “Ukraine Freedom Support Act.”
Today, some Russian media outlets have noticed language in the law that seems to set aside $60 million for promoting Russian “democracy and civil society organizations,” including support for “expanding uncensored Internet access.”
Access to $60 million from the US government would undoubtedly be an exciting, albeit perilous, opportunity for Russia’s many activists and journalists working online.
That money, however, is unlikely ever to materialize.
The law is only an “authorization of appropriations,” not an actual appropriations bill.
In other words, Congress and the president have merely signaled their support for spending this money.
Without an associated appropriation, the Ukraine Freedom Support Act doesn’t actually promise so much as an extra cent for democracy promotion in Russia.
A source in Washington’s democracy-promotion community told RuNet Echo, “The authorization language is essentially a recommendation, and we’re not expecting it to result in any new appropriations for Russian media or civil society.”
A Presidential Birth Certificate Controversy Provokes Social Unrest in Gabon · Global Voices
Protests in Libreville, Gabon against president Bongo on on December 20 - via OpGabon with permission
Clashes broke out between police and the opposition in Gabon on December 20 stemming from questions about the legitimacy of President Ali Bongo.
A recent book called "New African Affairs" by French reporter Pierre Péan alleged that President Ali Bongo has Nigerian origins.
The book was slammed by the authorities, accusing the reporter of inciting racial hatred in Gabon.
The clashes led to the death of one student and several arrests.
Photos on social network of the protests and its impact on civilians were widely circulating on the Gabonese blogosphere, such as the following:
True or false, recap of a tumultuous week-end in Gabon http://t.co/hu4r9iWtya #Libreville #obs #Bongo @cbainier
Puerto Rican Writes '2014 Political Folk Song of The Year' · Global Voices
Cover of the band's new album "Small Town Heroes."
"The Body Electric" by Puerto Rican singer songwriter Alynda Lee Segarra of Hurray for the Riff Raff has been declared 2014 Political Folk Song of the Year by the National Public Radio (NPR) in the US.
The song is a beautiful anthem against violence and oppression against women, people of color, and queer people.
Segarra talks to NPR about the meaning of "The Body Electric":
I am mostly familiar with how the song has taught me there is a true connection between gendered violence and racist violence.
There is a weaponization of the body happening right now in America.
Our bodies are being turned against us.
Black and brown bodies are being portrayed as inherently dangerous.
A Black person's size and stature are being used as reason for murder against them.
This is ultimately a deranged fear of the power and capabilities of black people.
It is the same evil idea that leads us to blame women for attacks by their abusers.
Normalizing rape, domestic abuse and even murder of women of all races is an effort to take the humanity out of our female bodies.
To objectify and to ridicule the female body is ultimately a symptom of fear of the power women hold.
Violence against women all over the world, rape, murders of transexuals, and the recent killings of young black men in the United States fueled the song's inception.
Segarra adds: "I hope this song breathes power and humanity back into all people who feel targeted by violence and oppression, whether they exist in our old stories and songs or are marching in protest as we speak."
Drones Flying Over Nuclear Power Stations in France Raise Concerns · Global Voices
Map of France's Nuclear Plants.
Greenpeace.
At least 19 drones have been spotted in the past two months flying over nuclear power stations in France.
So far, no one has claimed responsibility for conducting these flights.
French electric utility company EDF says the drones pose no risk whatsoever to the plants' equipment or operations, but many nationwide are still uneasy.
With 58 nuclear reactors spread out over 19 plants, France is the highest user of nuclear energy in Europe, and the second highest in the world, after the United States.
In a blog post published on the website Géneration NT, Jérôme G. gives some insight into the matter:
Recreational drones allow users to take arresting images from a low height.
It is another story altogether, however, when drones fly over nuclear power plants, especially since it raises questions about security.
With concerns about terrorism ever-present, the fear that drones carrying explosive devices could potentially fly over such sites looms large.
Since the beginning of October, surveillance teams from EDF have noted seven that devices that look like drones have flown over seven nuclear plants.
France has 58 nuclear reactors distributed throughout 19 power plants.
The plants that were flown over are Blayais (in the department of Gironde), Bugey (in Ain), Cattenom (in Moselle), Chooz (in Ardennes), Gravelines (in Nord), and Nogent-sur-Seine (in Aube), as well as the plant currently being dismantled in Creys-Malville (in Isère).
Sometimes, the incidents occur on the same day.
In 2012, the organization flew a drone aircraft over a nuclear power plant in the Hague and piloted a manned paramotor over France's Bugey Nuclear Power Station, intending to discredit public claims by EDF and the French authorities that the stations pose no threat to human beings.
Greenpeace denies any role in the more recent drone sighting, however, reminding the public in several press releases that it always acts openly and claims responsibility for its acts. On November 24, 2014, Greenpeace commissioned a confidential report by a British firm about the vulnerabilities of France's nuclear power stations—vulnerabilities to attacks and incursions by drone aircraft.
One reader, "ManuKey," applauded Greenpeace:
Once more kudos to Greenpeace for raising this question!
Another reader, Lotre09, didn't hide his dislike for Greenpeace, quipping sarcastically:
Greenpeace a gang of fools that—thanks to nuclear energy—can stay warm and have light.
They have oil companies to thank for fueling their boats and zodiac ... these eco-freaks will always make me laugh with their hypocrisy.
A blog post on generation-nt.com also attracted a storm of comments from readers.
Karine, a reader of resistanceauthentique.wordpress.com, said she was surprised anonymous drones are able to taunt French nuclear power stations, despite the country's military and technological strength:
Isn't it surprising that, with all our modern capabilities, our military forces cannot track down these drones?
Funding for these lines of defense are declining—and not just a little.
There's also an excess of red tape with even routine maneuvers.
It is also unclear if many drone detectors exist.
Sure, we have police that patrol each day as part of surveillance measures at these nuclear sites, but I can't really see how that is going to help them hunt down these objects—whoever owns them.
HARFANG Drone in France via Calips on wikipmedia commons - CC-BY-3.0
On November 5, Rémi Barroux and Audrey Garric co-authored an article in Le Monde, "What Threats Do Drones Pose to Nuclear Power Plants?"
Readers left many interesting comments, some of which were quite alarming.
One commenter writes:
I work in IT security.
A drone could very well have been sent with the sole purpose of dropping a USB key containing a virus.
Whoever finds that key could take it and possibly infect the plant.
Another reader, Pierre Guillemot, describes a personal experience that is far less amusing:
Personal account: one day in June at around 8 pm I drove into the plant compound at Saint-Laurent-des Eaux near Orleans.
I passed 3 deserted guard booths with the barriers raised.
I got near to the reactors and parked my car.
A uniformed agent asked me to move it because it was in a reserved parking spot.
I walked a few rounds on foot.
It got late, so I left.
No one asked me any questions.
This was the summer of 2001... what security?
In a press release, dated November 3, the General Secretariat for Defense and National Security, a service that reports directly to the Prime Minister, announced that the government will not issue any detailed statements about surveillance, detection, or protection measures now in place at nuclear power facilities.
Whatever the state's defense measures, a Greenpeace activist was recently able to photograph a high-tech military radar stationed near two nuclear power plants in France.
This device, experts say, is the only kind of equipment capable of detecting drones.
Do #EmptyShelves Await Tomorrow's Russia? · Global Voices
Shopping in tomorrow's Russia?
Images edited by Kevin Rothrock.
As Russia experiences its worst currency crisis since the days of Boris Yeltsin, Russian consumers appear to be making a run on the stores, buying up whatever they can.
Moscow time, December 17, photoblogger Ilya Varlamov reported on LiveJournal that people around Moscow were lining up at stores throughout the city, cleaning out vendors of various goods that are likely to cost more if the ruble continues to depreciate at the start of the workday.
Russians are looking to unload their rubles any way they can—either by selling them for dollars and euros, or buying up electronics, groceries, and clothes.
Ordinary Russians appear to be in a full-scale panic, and they're naturally documenting the whole meltdown on Instagram and Twitter, using hashtags like #кризис (#crisis) and #ЧерныйВторник (#BlackTuesday).
The ruble is crashing, but Russian Internet activity is soaring.
Varlamov writes:
You’re probably sleeping now, but tomorrow morning you’ll awake to empty shelves in many stores.
While some people are running to currency exchange booths to buy up dollars and euros, others are storming the stores.
They’re grabbing anything with a price tag that hasn’t yet skyrocketed (mainly tech products, groceries, and clothes).
People are hurrying to get rid of all their rubles.
The stores open 24/7 have had long lines all through the night.
People have begun publishing some rather startling photographs on social media.
Due to the sharp decline of the ruble’s value relative to other currencies, Russia has in a matter of weeks become a world center of shopping.
Credit card processing companies have tracked a spike of transactions by foreigners in Russian stores, and Russian retailers themselves talk about wave of consumers from abroad.
RuNet Echo has collected several of the photographs Varlamov highlighted on Instagram, translating their Russian captions into English.
Ahaha, this is my new favorite non-stick frying pan!
Stood in line after work today for two hours in MVideo to buy it.
So crazy in there!
People understand quite well that because of ruble's downfall prices will shoot up tomorrow morning, two or three times, so they're buying TV sets and other electronics like hot cakes. #crisis #default #mvideo #crazypants #thisisrussia #dollar #shopping #line #sanctions #euro #emptyshelves
#crisis #default #mvideo #crazypants #thisisrussia #dollar #shopping #line #sanctions #euro
And you can't even see the end of the line from here, the line curls to the right and goes on in the isles.
http://instagram.com/p/wrdfRXKRZf/
Unbelievable scenes happening in MVideo.
... I couldn't even imagine I'd spend five hours in an Ikea on Monday afternoon...
We decided to go to Ikea. Have sanctions scared everyone?
Or is that what one buys as New Year gifts nowadays?
Some Russian Internet users have criticized those sharing photos of long lines at stores, saying it exacerbates Russia's crisis.
One LiveJournal user, for instance, says it's just another attempt to spread panic among the public:
I don't understand what the news is.
It's December 17, in the last few years these lines with crazy people in stores and traffic jams around shopping malls are a usual thing for pre-New Year hysteria.
Whatever the pressures of holiday gift-giving and Instagram-induced panic, it's hard to deny that Russian consumers have the common sense to understand the ruble's vanishing purchasing power.
The rush to invest in dollars, euros, vacuum cleaners, jackets, food, and who knows what else all suggests remarkably low confidence in the nation's economy—confidence low enough to compel people to wait in line for hours at IKEA on a Tuesday night.
Kevin Rothrock assisted in the production of this text.
Selfies, 'Sandwich Parties' and 'The Hunger Games': How Activists Have Challenged Thailand's Martial Law · Global Voices
Armed soldiers stand on guard during an operation to control anti-coup protesters in Bangkok.
Photo by Matthew Richards, Copyright @Demotix (5/25/2014)
Just over six months have passed since a military junta seized control of the Thai government and ousted the country's elected leader, Yingluck Shinawatra, in a coup on May 22.
The junta quickly suspended the country's constitution, dissolved the legislature, placed sanctions on free expression and assembly, and temporarily detained a number of political leaders.
Despite this, Thai citizens have used social media to speak out and draw attention to conditions in the country.
The following images are from the past six months:
3. Sandwich ban Some students organized a picnic against the coup but it was stopped by police forces.
Shortly after taking power, the junta banned lectures, meetings, and demonstrations that they saw as a threat. Students and faculty that defied the ban were arrested and detained.
The junta also mandated memorization of “12 Values” that focused on deference to authority, and tracked the movements of those who questioned them.
Photo from Facebook of Yingluck. The head of the junta chastised and warned journalists not to report on a photo of the two former prime ministers of Thailand, Thaksin Shinawatra and Yingluck Shinawatra, cuddling a panda on a visit to China, because it posed a "danger to Thailand's national security." The photo has been interpreted by some as a sign of Beijing's political support for democratic forces in Thailand.
Hunger Games at #DistrictThai
Massive Oil Spill Threatens Bangladesh's Sundarbans · Global Voices
Spotted deers forage at the Kokilmoni forest in the Sundarbans, a UNESCO world heritage site.
Bagerhat, Bangladesh.
Image by Muhammad Mostafigur Rahman.
Copyright Demotix (5/11/2014)
An oil tanker carrying 358,000 liters (almost 100,000 gallons) of furnace oil sank in the Shela river on December 7, spilling oil over more than 60 kilometers (about 37 miles) of the Sundarbans.
Located on in southwest Bangladesh, the Sundarbans is the largest single block of tidal mangrove forest in the world, covering approximately 10,000 square kilometers (3,900 square miles), of which 60 percent is in Bangladesh.
The Sundarbans, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is also one of the largest reserves for the Bengal tiger, and provides sanctuary to many other species.
1st ever @oilslick in the #Sunderbans threatens world's largest @mangrove ecosystem, a @UNESCO World @HeritageSite http://t.co/NrqAVtyRZS — SALEEM SAMAD (@saleemsamad) December 12, 2014
Disaster in #Sundarbans >> Sela banks turn pitch black Sinking oil tanker was actually a modified and… http://t.co/2YIFoLihPb — Polash Datta (@polashdatta) December 11, 2014
The #oilspill at #sundarban threatens hundreds of endangered species. @wwwfoecouk @wbclimatechange @the_ecologist pic.twitter.com/Z0G8SKHaAd — Rumi Ahmed (@rumiahmed) December 13, 2014
According to reports, the new oil spill threatens the Mrigmari-Nondabala-Andharmanik dolphin sanctuary.
Mangrove trees are also highly susceptible to oil pollution—indeed, they are expected to start dying after the area's aquatic life, which is typically first to perish.
Fahim Hassan has put together an infographic on Flickr explaining the details of the devastation.
According to images Mowgliz Elisabeth Rubaiyat posted on Facebook, the disaster is already killing some animals.
Local authorities appear to be outside their depth, never before having confronted so large an oil spill, and lacking the necessary infrastructure to respond properly.
Al Jazeera reports several local fishermen have resorted to cleaning up the spill using sponges and sacks.
Many on Twitter have questioned the authorities' response:
Talk to the org that worked after 2010 Gulf oil spill!
Seriously guys ...
"Authorities clueless in the Sundarbans" http://t.co/z7vZPqVSuf — Sumaiya Shams (@sumaiya_s) December 12, 2014
A #Bangladesh govt minister says a UK company has offered to clean up 60-km oil slick that is threatening the Sunderbans mangrove forest. — Sabir Mustafa (@Sabir59) December 12, 2014
To help in the relief effort, the government dispatched a ship to the area carrying oil dispersants.
If such chemicals are released incorrectly, however, it can harm the local ecology still further.
Four days later, the state's efforts seem to have had little effect, exacerbating fears of a lasting ecological disaster.
Bangladesh's Water Transport Minister says locals were able to stop the oil from entering the forrest, using nets, and they're also working to remove the oil from the water, to keep the situation from becoming worse.
The national Forest Department is leading the operation with 100 boats and 200 fishermen.
The Forest Department has filed a lawsuit for 1 billion Bangladeshi taka (about $13 million) against the owners of the two cargo ships responsible for the spill.
Just a month ago, before the spill, the Sunderbans mangrove forest looked like this:
Blogger Ahmed Sharif criticizes the government's ill-planned disaster-management strategy, saying it misunderstands the issue:
Is disaster-management confined to floods and cyclones?
In past decades, the country has seen accelerated economic development and increased risks.
But we could not keep pace to prepare ourselves for those added risks.
The commercial ships in our waterways have multiplied, but our monitoring agencies couldn't keep up.
Many ships are being built outside the proper guidelines, carrying passengers over their capacity.
Many ships are unfit to operate, they dispose of waste improperly, they block waterways indiscriminately, they break schedules—nobody is monitors any of this.
So there is an increased risk of accidents, and we are not prepared for these accidents and disasters.
YouTube user A. K. M. Wahiduzzaman uploaded a video capturing the devastation of the oil spill:
The body of the first dolphin, a rare Irrawadi dolphin, to die in this incident was discovered last Friday.
According to reports, the Padma Oil Company has managed to remove about 10,000 liters (about 2,600 gallons) of oil in its cleanup efforts, so far.
The company is offering to pay volunteer cleanup-workers 30 Bangladeshi taka (about 40 cents) for every liter (about 34 ounces) of oil recovered.
Singer and blogger Mac Haque comments on Facebook:
What is perplexing is the rudimentary cleaning operation.
With offer of Taka 30/= per litre for furnace oil recovered, thousands have jumped in, not to save the Sundarbans but to eke an existence.
Obviously for the poorest of the poor this is a windfall.
However, have not heard anyone talk about the risk to human health from dangerous toxins in the furnace oil.
Anywhere else in the world the Government would have faced public litigation suit for endangering citizens health.
I see thousands of poor and ignorant people dying in the days ahead thanks to Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation's myopic decision.
Our focus should not only be for hunt of dead dolphins - but contaminated humans!
There have been protests demanding that the authorities ban merchant ships and cargo vessels from using the rivers and channels of the Sundarbans.
Absent effective government measures, Bangladesh will have to keep relying on civil society and volunteers in this environmental crisis.
Traditional Iñupiaq Story Comes To Life Through Video Game · Global Voices
A traditional Iñupiaq story called Kunuuksaayuka told by Robert Nasruk Cleveland and documented in the book "Stories of the Black River People" has now taken a new life in the form of a video game for PC and other popular gaming consoles.
The new game called Never Alone (Kisima Inŋitchuŋa) continues to receive praise for the unique approach of including Alaskan Native communities in the entire development of the game.
Narrated in the Iñupiat language with English sub-titles, the game tells the story of a young girl named Nuna and her arctic fox companion, who set off to explore and discover the cause of a raging blizzard affecting her community.
Even though the character originally was a boy in the story told by Cleveland, the game developers sought out the approval of Minnie Gray, Cleveland's daughter to make this change.
The project started as a collaborative initiative by the Cook Inlet Tribal Council, which worked with E-Line Media and Upper One Games, which is the first indigenous-owned video game developer.
On the video game's blog, the makers documented the process, as well as produced this behind-the-scenes video (above) showing how elders, young people, and linguists proudly all took part in the game's development.
Reviews continue to come in, and Roy Boney writes in the Native Peoples blog that Never Alone "is more than a typical video game. It is a cultural experience packaged into a beautiful and thoughtful piece of digital art."
10 Ways Mexicans Can Reclaim Their Troubled Country, According to Denisse Dresser · Global Voices
Denisse Dresser.
Photo by Pablo H. Originally published in Flickr under Creative Commons License.
During the presentation of her book "Mexico, el país de uno" (the country of one's own), political commentator and author Denisse Dresser shared with attendees of her talk as well as YouTube viewers 10 ways she thinks that citizens can "regain Mexico", a country that according to the author “has been rented to its inhabitants for far too long".
For Dresser, Mexico has for far too long "belonged to its religious leaders to its conquerors, to its liberals, to its dictators, to its PRI partisans, to its imperial presidents, to its monopolists, to its political parties and to its elites”.
Dresser makes reference to the ills that have made Mexico's recent history full of difficult challenges.
From corruption in politics to social inequalities, Mexico's path has not been free of hardship, specially for the poor.
The most recent troubles are deeply connected with drug-related violence, and the war on drugs.
This has also resulted in what Dresser sees as a certain indifference that needs to surpassed, so Mexico can get back to its real owners: its citizens.
Dresser’s words are addressed to a society in difficult times; her ideas are based on facts that very difficult to be ignored.
However, the challenges she listed and the hardships she reflected on can easily be those of many other countries both in the region and the world:
Mexico is obsessed with failure.
With what could have been, but wasn’t.
With what was lost, forgotten, mistreated These are foggy times of the dead and the wounded, of factual powers and reforms that don’t really deal with them completely...
Thus, to "regain Mexico", Dresser proposed 10 simple steps, summarized here: To be irreverent to power: “It’s vital to be a full embodied citizen”.
To vote and “understand the candidate, scrutinize him/her to know where he/she comes from and where she/he goes”.
To be informed: “I wish you’d understand that if you get most information from TV, you won’t be exposed to big pieces of the country’s reality.
I wish you’d understand that the strongest limits to free speech come frequently from Televisa and Television Azteca."
To engage with and evaluate your legislator, municipal representative or governor: “I wish you’d understand this person is your employee, because his and her salary comes from the taxes that, I hope, you’re paying”.
To understand that “this famous war on drugs has not produced the results that were expected of it worsened the problems it had set out to solve”.
To understand that Mexico “will only prosper when its people are educated, and quite well educated”.
To oppose monopoly: “There’s no easier way to become rich in this country than being licensed to manage some public asset”.
To collect the garbage outside your home: “To become responsible for that public space that is your country”.
To connect with others through online citizen media: "I wish you’d understand that it is fundamental to strengthen the attachment between new technologies and the exercise of political and civil rights in Mexico".
To recognize “that it is our duty to give something back to our country.
To give some of our time, our talent, our energy”.
The full speech, in Spanish, can be seen here:
Throughout her speech, Dresser reflected on what it means to be a citizen nowadays, and what the challenges for Mexico’s new generation of citizens are.
She mentioned examples, recommended authors, films, readings, and online newspapers that could encourage this change in people’s mentalities.
Another important point of the talk were the vices that have come from Mexico’s political history.
Dresser laments the comeback of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI, in Spanish), the political party that ruled the country for over 70 years and which returned to power with Enrique Peña Nieto’s presidency:
We go from palliative to palliative, from "The Labyrinth of Solitude" to the oppression of having low expectations.
And even when it’s true that some of the practices of the past have been buried, numerous institutional vices associated with authoritarianism and the old PRI are still there, restricting citizen participation and democratic governability.
Mexicans have more in common with Frodo, the hobbit burdened with saving all of Middle-earth in J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings trilogy, than they might think, according to Dresser.
She underlined how most Mexicans, like Frodo, are called to be a hero in spite of themselves:
Frodo, the hobbit, is a reluctant hero.
Frodo doesn’t want to assume the task that has been given to him.
Frodo would rather stay in The Shire and live there in peace.
And in Mexico, lots of Frodos act like this, think like this, live like this.
They prefer to criticize those in power instead of engaging so they can do it better.
They choose obliging passivity over engaged participation.
But Frodo has no choice.
And you, Mexican citizens, have no choice either.
At the conclusion of her talk, Dresser summed up in a hopeful tone, reminding what is most important:
I think it’s very exciting to be Mexican in these times, even if one has to coexist with the return of the PRI.
I’m thankful for that gift.
I don’t feel we’re unchangeable, I don’t feel we’re immovable, I don’t think we’re inferior or deserve less.
We’re the most transparent region of the air. We’re, providentially, from Mexico.
The video of the speech has 79,000 views on YouTube and has attracted interesting comments from concerned netizens and viewers.
Most of them welcomed Dresser’s ideas and shared the 10 ways that could make a good Mexican citizen, according to her.
History has shown that change has only come through a revolution after a useless or failed government.
All governments become corrupt after a certain time.
Then what is needed is sacrifice, and a renewal.
This woman inspires me to demand what we deserve.
Nepal's #SmashChairChallenge Pressures the Constituent Assembly to Draft the Constitution · Global Voices
Screenshot from Twitter.
The Nepali Twitter-sphere is filled with images of people throwing chairs.
Thanks to the infamous incident in the Nepal’s Constituent Assembly where Maoist lawmakers threw chairs, the Twitter users in Nepal have started #SmashChairChallenge, an online satire to press the Constituent Assembly members to draft the constitution on time.
Nepal is governed under the Interim Constitution of Nepal, which was promulgated in January 2007.
The new constitution was to be formally declared by May 2010, but the Constituent Assembly changed the deadline several times because of many points of disagreement between the political parties.
In May 2012, Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai dissolved the elected Constituent Assembly after it failed to finish the constitution, ending four years of constitution drafting and leaving the country in a legal vacuum.
Elections to a second Constituent Assembly were held on November 19, 2013 and political leaders have pledged to draft a new constitution within a year.
The latest deadline was on January 22 - but on January 20, 2015, a fight broke out in the Nepali Assembly, where Maoist and Madhesi lawmakers scuffled with ruling party politicians.
The Nepali Twitter users had seen enough of the brawl and decided to do something about it.
Brazesh Khanal, an author, columnist and screenplay writer tweeted:
There’s a plan to upload photos from 10:45 AM with hashtag #SmashChairChallenge.
All are requested to participate, get your photo ready.
He challenged his followers to do the same, after he uploaded a picture of himself throwing a chair. #SmashChairChallange I have accepted it.
Now your turn @yopeshp @niraj_1974 @iBshnu @sigdelumesh pic.twitter.com/6jRFjzYwmc — Navin Khatiwada (@NavinKhatiwada) January 23, 2015
Narayan Wagle, a noted author and journalist, showed solidarity with the social media campaign.
Journalist Girish Giri tweeted:
#SmashChairChallange Is an option 2 invoke some minds but until we don't #SmashNetas ,there won't be any #DraftConstitution or prosperity. — Umesh Upadhayaya (@UmeshUpadhayaya) January 23, 2015
Some, like Rudra Pangeni, a journalist with Republica, were even in favour of smashing people protesting on the roads:
I am not for #SmashChairChallange, but for #SmashPeopleChallange who are protesting in the road and blocking road even today 'tinka baje' — Rudra Pangeni (@rudrapangeni) January 23, 2015
The vandalism and attacks in the assembly smashing the furniture were highly publicised by both national and foreign media; netizens agreed that their behaviour caused the country great embarrassment.
Shankar Dahal tweeted:
The Constituent Assembly Secretariat has issued a press release stating the vandalism amounted to NRs three million (1 USD = NRs 98.46). While it is yet to be decided whether the assembly members will be suspended or made to pay for the damage, Nepali social media users are busy supporting the #SmashChairChallenge.
One social media follower tweeted:
Seems won’t be included in the society until I lift a chair and post the photo with #SmashChairChallange
From the Global Voices 2015 Summit, Moving Onward and Upward · Global Voices
Perhaps we weren't visible from space, like the Great Wall of China.
But fortunately the drone-mounted camera that filmed us in front of Cebu City’s grand Provincial Capitol building on the afternoon of January 25, 2015 hovered only a few hundred feet above us, a fraction of the Global Voices community assembled into a very respectable-looking—considering how quickly we did it—column-and-circle formation representing the 10 years of our existence.
We turned 10 in December, so the sixth Global Media Citizen Summit in January in Cebu City, Philippines, was another moment to celebrate, our only regret being that we weren’t able to do it with the entire 800-plus active members of the community present.
As the only times our virtual community gets to meet face to face, our biennial Summits are extremely important for the development of the organisation.
The 2015 Summit included four days of internal meetings, and culminated in a public conference at the Cebu Provincial Capitol on the theme of The Open Internet: Local Perspectives, Global Rights.
The proceedings opened, movingly and appropriately, with a statement read by Global Voices members calling for the release of jailed online media workers and activists.
Also announced at the Summit were the winners of the essay competition supported by Google.
We have many to thank for helping making our 2015 Summit such a success:
Our speakers, for generously sharing your expertise during the Summit sessions (see reports and videos on the Summit site).
Our attendees, who came from near and far within the Philippines, and from other parts of the world, to be part of the event.
Our international sponsors: Ford Foundation, MacArthur Foundation, Google, Open Society Foundations, Knight Foundation, Yahoo! and Automattic.
And the Summit would not have been the success it was without the tremendous support we received from our host location.
Our heartfelt gratitude to our media sponsor SunStar Publishing, and our tech sponsors Globe Telecom and Smart Communications.
To the Province of Cebu for letting us have the run of their grand Provincial Capitol Building for two whole days.
To the Philippine Department of Tourism for the warm Filipino welcome and the epic closing party at the Museo Sugbo.
And to Doris Isubal-Mongaya and her team at PRWorks for their extraordinary organisational skills and expert touches that made our time in Cebu special in so many ways—and for the gift of the drone video.
And onward and upward we go.
French Teenagers Speak a Language All Their Own.
Here's a Guide · Global Voices
The Tower of Babel by Peter Bruegel the Elder CC-BY-20
The purpose of a language is to meet the communication needs of the society that uses it, so any living language is by its very nature bound to evolve as a result of social changes.
Thanks to advances in technology, these developments sometimes progress quickly in certain demographic groups, particularly among teenagers, creating a significant chasm in the relationships between parents and teenagers. One can often hear French parents bemoan their inability to comprehend conversation between their teenage children.
It is not an insurmountable problem, but a decoder is needed to bridge the gulf.
Here are some tips for French-speaking parents to reopen the channels of communication that have been obstructed by generational, technological and occasionally cultural factors.
SMS language (texting language)
SMS language came about as a way to reduce the length of words used and thus avoid exceeding the number of characters allowed by text messages, as well as to speed up typing on mobile phone keypads.
These technological constraints gave rise to a form of communication that seems more intuitive to frequent users of SMS messaging and less familiar to parents, who do not recognise most of the codes, abbreviations and spellings used. (Written in text speak) "This is a web forum, not a cell phone. if you want an answer to your query, try writing in a proper language".
Anti-SMS language poster itself written in SMS language.
CC-BY-20
Here are some examples of SMS language decoded for the uninitiated by the Gralon forum: - je vi1 2 = je viens de (“I’ve just”)
Désirée explains in her post what she finds most irritating when reading texts in SMS language: Text speak is for teens who want to appear rebellious, for people who don’t want to spend too much time composing a text message and don’t care about errors, and people who don’t care that the person they’re writing to cannot understand their hideous hieroglyphics.
As you might have guessed, I’m opposed to this prehistoric language!
I tried it myself as a teen, and even in my most rebellious phase, I couldn’t bring myself to send messages full of errors The problem is that most people who write in text language make no distinction between emails and texts, which doesn’t matter too much when they’re writing to someone they know, but becomes seriously disrespectful when it’s to a total stranger.
Tizel is also opposed to the spread of this form of communication.
He decries the increase in incomprehensibility of messages:
SMS language is a real scourge.
This is borne out by the number of forums that have become unreadable because of the total absence of moderation in this area.
But this scourge is also found in blogs: the majority of Skyblogs are written in SMS; the comments posted on the blogs are mainly in SMS as well.
Even some of the emails I receive are written the same way.
I am also convinced that by writing this way these people are adversely affecting their spelling ability.
Some, however, see this evolution as an opportunity.
Many novels for young people use text speak to convey a sense of realism.
Others, such as Philippe Marso, have even written a whole novel in text speak.
Verlanised or anglicised language
Verlan is a form of French argot, in which the syllables of a word are inverted.
When coupled with anglicisation of the vocabulary, it is sometimes difficult for parents to understand.
Here is an introduction to the project, which can be found on le Dino Bleu's blog: J’suis en pit ("I am in pit"), Lui, c’est un 100 % roro ("He is 100% roro") J’ai invité mes sauces au barbecue ("I have invited all my dressings to the BBQ"), Laisse tomber, il a toyé tout le monde! ("Let it be, he just toyed with everyone"), Aujourd’hui je rince un greg ("Today, I will wash out my liquor"), Je suis yomb de toi ("I am yomb for you")…Did you understand all that?
No?
That's exactly why a group of young people from Evry came up with the idea for this illustrated Lexik des cités, which is quite different from traditional dictionaries.
So that all the parents could finally understand their expressions and interpret them better!
It depicts the suburbs as vibrant, funny and optimistic, where language is colourful and goes from verlan to metaphor, drawing as much from Arabic, African, slang and gypsy as from old French.
Le Dino bleu adds:
Integration is the defining characteristic of this work.
The juxtaposition of sensitivities, inspirations, cultures, ideas, etc. from all four corners of the world, which quickly found that their forced isolation gave them the ideal situation to mix together, a far cry from the prevailing conformity that does little to stimulate creativity.
Too often, cities are presented as no-go areas riddled with violence and all kinds of trafficking, generally by the media looking for the kind of sensational headlines that guarantee a certain audience, but these cities have actually been creating their own culture for quite some time.
An identity has been forged from all the civilisations of Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe and elsewhere, which found a melting pot there in which to cast this alloy, whose value hasn’t yet been fully appreciated.
The language of social networks or Internet slang
Another development that has arisen from advances in technology is digital language or Internet slang, which speeds up writing and punctuation, but can also let you know rapidly that a message has been read or understood.
The main thing is to convey a message or idea to one’s correspondent in real time.
This language is constantly evolving owing to the growing impact of online culture on the general public.
Websites such as Urban Dictionary or Know Your Meme are reference sites that provide a better understanding of web culture.
The list of internet slang terms is growing rapidly, that’s for sure.
Some terms have already passed into everyday written language, for example: FYI (for your information), JDCJDR (je dis cela, je dis rien - “just saying”) or BRB (be right back).
The Internet’s role in the evolution of languages is certainly a double-edged sword.
On the one hand, it speeds up the disappearance of languages by standardising the means of communication.
But it also plays a role in the preservation of endangered languages, by creating communities that ensure the conservation of languages in their traditional forms.
Despite the numerous objections to the misuse of language and syntax errors, it seems pointless to be hellbent on preventing a language from evolving in response to the developments of modern society.
Ultimately, isn’t the most important thing to be able to create a relationship with other people, to pass on knowledge and ideas, and to understand each other?
Tens of Thousands March Through Madrid's Streets for Change · Global Voices
"The great March of Change", in Madrid, Spain.
Photo by Olmo Calvo, Diagonal newspaper.
Republished under CC License.
The rally was called by Podemos, a political party founded just one year ago that nevertheless won five seats in the European Parliament, positioning itself as a potential winner of the Spanish general elections in 2016.
The party has a strong commitment to citizens and has collected ideas raised during the years of outrage and protest following the financial crisis that rocked Spain. Responding to Podemos' call for the march, citizens turned up by the tens of thousands, giving the party massive support in the streets.
Photo by Wassim Zabad.
Used with permission.
The march on January 31 was presented as a political assembly in which the audience was able to attend the interventions by members of Podemos.
The audience appropriated the most famous slogans of the Indignado Movement (15M)-the 2011-12 massive protests after the economic crisis.
This time, however, unlike previous demonstrations the outrage was not the only reason for the rally-the will to join forces to change the system was also at the heart of the movement.
"Yes, we can" was the most heard cry, also chanted in other rallies of recent years, to express that citizens feel empowered to end corruption and the reign of a political elite that does not look out for their interests.
"We dream, but we take our dreams very seriously," was the most repeated phrase by Pablo Iglesias, the Podemos party leader who organized the march through a viral online campaign.
He began his speech by referring to Greece, which has elected the Syriza party, which opposes the European elite, to form a government.
Greece is the first country that will reject austerity measures, according to Podemos, and the party plans for Spain to be the second with it leading the government.
Spain faces the problems of inequality, poverty, and exclusion, Iglesias said, denouncing the country's recent governments. He also presented proposals for change as a way of stressing the need to take a left turn: "2015 is the year of change for Spain and Europe.”
Several generations listen to the leader of Podemos.
Photo by David Fernández.
Diagonal newspaper.
The leader paid tribute to activist groups that have fought to defend people's rights in the past and now: the teachers and students that formed a green tide in defense of education, the white coats who locked themselves inside hospitals for public health care, women who fought for the right to abortion, "the tireless grandparents" who have struggled for social justice for future generations, the “deceived people" who have fought against the banks, and migrant workers who have struggled to stop evictions.
"Thanks for being the popular movement that will allow the change.
Never again a country without its people,” he concluded.
Twitter users have used the social network to share photos and videos of the event, the reasons for their participation in the march, and even their dreams about that day:
The people said enough to crooks, corrupts and false patriots ... change is in our hands! #EsAhora31E pic.twitter.com/rwadufhEj2
This Saturday the dream and hope for change will flood Madrid:> 31E Cibeles-Sol 12H < #LaMarchaDelCambio pic.twitter.com/WHQi0uOs3L Madrid, 31E. You can feel the dream of the people who are building their future with joy and hope pic.twitter.com/IIxfIjNtSU #SonreirEsVencer href = "http://t.co/IIxfIjNtSU"> pic.twitter.com/IIxfIjNtSU#SonreirEsVencer
Today is a constituent moment.
It's time for the people.
We will not forget the #31e @ierrejon petandola #EsAhora31E pic.twitter.com/SRcXdLECLZ
The Secret Language of Turkey's LGBT Community · Global Voices
A drawing of Sevval Kilic by Mine Bethet.
Credit: Courtesy of Mine Bethet.
Published with PRI's permission.
This article and a radio report by Dalia Mortada for The World in Words originally appeared on PRI.org on January 14, 2015 and is republished as part of a content-sharing agreement.
Sevval Kilic is a couple of inches shy of six feet.
Her hair, various shades of light brown, rests at the middle of her back, and her eyes, outlined by long lashes, look like perfectly drawn almonds.
Listen to this story on PRI.org »She has one of the biggest smiles I’ve ever seen, and it’s infectious.
She looks much younger than her 40 years, and she likes to reminisce about the good old days when she made good money.
“In my day,” she reminisces, “I was shopping. I was shopping as hell … my shoes, just my shoes …” she trails off, giggling.
That was in the 1990s, when Sevval lived in a neighborhood notorious for its unregistered brothels.
She was 19 when she moved in.
Today, the quiet lane in central Istanbul looks much like it did in the 90s.
But the sounds that fill the street are completely different.
A lady washing her windows on the third floor takes a break to chat with a neighbor hollering hello from the street.
It’s not, as it once was, packed with guys taking their pick of sexual adventures for the night.
No catcalls descend from the windows like they did a couple of decades ago, like the kind of catcall Sevval used to attract clients: “Psh psh, psh psh — this is the way,” Sevval explains, “or sfoot sfoot.”
Just a small, subtle sound to catch a guy’s attention.
In Turkey, prostitution is legal with a license and state-run brothels have an intense registration process.
But Sevval and her colleagues were not eligible: The state did not, and still does not, accept transitioning women or gay men.
Sevval had not completed her transition to becoming a woman when she signed up for her brothel.
Ulker St in Istanbul used to be part of a red-light district.
Credit: Dalia Mortada.
In fact, she arrived with just her boy clothes.
One of the more experienced women took her under her wing.
“She took care of me like a real mom.
She washed me, she fed me, she dressed me, she taught me everything about working, about secrecy,” she says.
Secrecy included using a secret slang, or as linguists call it, an argot, called Lubunca.
Lubunca is how Sevval and her colleagues talked to each other about their work in front of clients or the cops.
It uses Turkish sentences and grammar, but certain words are replaced.
The words Sevval used were related to her work. There are terms for hair and make-up, sex positions and different types of clients.
“Let's say there's a rich customer and the girl in the front apartment yells, 'It's a hundred dollar customer!'
That’s bir but baari, Sevval explains.
Bir is the Turkish word for “one” and “but” means thigh or rump, like a large cut of meat.
“Bari” is like saying “at least.”
These are all Turkish words, but the way they’re strung together means you wouldn’t understand unless you knew Lubunca.
Other words in the slang come from different languages.
“Some of the core elements of Lubunca come from other minority languages that haven't been spoken very much for quite some time,” Nicholas Kontovas explains.
Kontovas is a socio-historical linguist who has studied the origins of Lubunca.
He explains that most of the words come from Romani — the language of ethnic Roma, or gypsies, who live in Turkey.
There are words from Greek, Kurdish and Bulgarian, too.
Kontovas explains that people from these communities have, to a greater or lesser extent, been outcasts in Turkish society, so they tend to live in the same city neighborhoods.
That’s how Lubunca picked up its foreign feel.
Kontovas says the words from Lubunca are intimately tied to these neighborhoods and to meeting spots within those neighborhoods.
The Turkish word for an Ottoman style bathhouse, for example, is hamam.
In Lubunca, it’s tato which comes from the Romani word for warm.
“The fact that there's a word for hamam is pretty telling.
The queer slang varieties that were used beforehand, at least what is recorded, were predominantly used in hamams,” which is where male sex work took place during the Ottoman empire, Kontovas says.
Of course, Lubunca has evolved.
The terms for sex organs and positions get pretty creative — and are not appropriate for publishing.
Terms for flirting are pretty crafty, too.
“Badem alikmak, which is also to eye up.
Badem, meaning almond, obviously in reference to shape of the eye,” Kontovas describes.
“There's another thing that's great, which is badem sekeri, which is 'almond candy,' which is eye candy,” he adds.
It is quite similar to Polari — the British gay argot that made it into the mainstream in the 1960s, back when being gay was still criminal in the UK.
An example of Polari would be: “Bona to vada your dolly old eek.” That means “Nice to see your pretty face.”Eventually, after homosexuality was decriminalized in Britain, the argot dropped out of fashion.
Kontovas says, “The use of Polari started to decline so much so people had to go and record it and go into archives and look into recordings and ask older members of the community.”As more people use Lubunca, it’s possible that it, too, could fade away like Polari, but that seems unlikely.
Like Polari, Lubunca exists because it needs to: Not only is gay and trans sex work likely to stay illegal, but Lubunca’s use has grown in recent years.
More members of the LGBT community — especially gay men — have adopted the argot.
Sometimes they use it to show off — to declare they are part of the gay community while still keeping it a secret in public.
And being trans or a sex worker can even be looked down upon within the LGBT community.Turgay Bayindir, for example, came out as gay in college, but he knew nothing about the community.
He heard his new friends using Lubunca for fun, but he did not get it.
“At first I was uncomfortable, especially because it was associated with trans-women who are sex workers,” Turgay recalls, saying he considered it demeaning.
But he got over his bias after he actually learned more about Lubunca and why certain people need to use it.The word “lubunya” is how gay men and trans women often describe themselves — and it has crept into Turgay’s vocabulary.
He says it might not be such a bad thing if the secret language becomes a little less secret.
“I think in general exposure would be good and also it would make the lubunya community less scary to the public when they start learning about it,” he says.Still, because certain words have become so mainstream, they are no longer used in the sex work community.
Sevval, who left sex work to become an activist after her gender reassignment surgery, says she doesn’t recognize a lot of the words anymore.
“Girls invented some new words — even I don’t understand them. In 2015, girls speak something else,” she says.
“It evolves.”Perhaps society will evolve too, so that Lubunca can be used for fun and not just because it is necessary.
The World in Words podcast is on Facebook and iTunes.
With support from the National Endowment for the Humanities
A Bold New Prime Minister Sends Ripples Through Greece's Old Political Order · Global Voices
Caption: "Political analysts highlight the danger of a possible attack of Godzilla in Athens, if SYRIZA wins the elections" Meme tweeted by @kgougakis
Greek social media users have been tweeting in overdrive for a month but they've been on fire since January 25, the day of national legislative elections in Greece, which paved the way for the country's new bold 40-year-old prime minister Alexis Tsipras.
Tsipras, a self-described atheist, has made history by politely shunning Greece's traditional religious oath of office from the country's Archbishop.
He has also become the youngest prime minister in Greek history since 1865.
That's not all.
For the first time in 40 years, Greece's two big political parties PASOK or New Democracy are not in the new government, and many "traditional" families with a long history in modern Greek politics are finally out of parliament.
Many #Greeks around 40 will wake up tomorrow in a #Greece without #PASOK or #ND in govt for the first time in their lives. — Bruno Tersago (@BrunoTersago) January 25, 2015
The backstory
It all started with the unprecedented failure of the previous parliament to cast enough votes to elect a new president as head of state, which is a mostly ceremonial role. Their move triggered early general elections.
The opposition accused the government of sowing fear to win support for the presidential vote and avoid elections, while former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras warned that "the country risked a catastrophic return to the depths of its debt crisis if the government fell" and claimed that "denial to agree on presidential selection is political blackmail".
Τhere was constant fear-mongering by the government and its allies in mainstream media that it would be the "end of the world" if SYRIZA came to government, as speculated by this article on a popular news portal in December 2014:
Everything shows that will proceed with activities of political terrorism, such as "Syriza will lead us to bankruptcy", "Syriza will get us out of Eurozone", "ATMs will run empty, if Syriza wins", "they will blow us apart" etc. - everything quite similar and known as before!
After the general elections, his party Syriza gathered only 149 out of 151 seats needed for a majority in a parliament of 300, so Tsipras agreed to share power with the populist rightwing party Independent Greeks (who only got 4.74% votes).
Analysts are waiting to see how the two parties are going to cooperate; besides their opposition to Troika, they have totally different agendas.
I am NOT happy with SYRIZA deciding to form a coalition with Indep Greeks.
They're racist, homophobic, antisemitic loonies. #ekloges2015 — Theodora Oikonomides (@IrateGreek) January 26, 2015
In a post titled "Greece wakes up to a different world", blogger Teacherdude eloquently summarizes the coalition between Syriza and Independent Greeks:
The choice of Independent Greeks has surprised many observers, especially those abroad who find it hard to comprehend a partnership between a radical socialist party and a conservative nationalist one, Yet for Syriza this constitutes the least worst choice given the options available.
The most obvious candidate for coalition partner would have been the Greek Communist Party (KKE) but anyone even vaguely aware of Greek politics would have known that such an alliance would have been impossible as KKE would never compromise on its own leftist principles which include leaving the European Union, the Eurozone and NATO.
So, in the end Independent Greeks who are often painted as a collection of right wing conspiracy theorists and borderline racists made the cut .
However, the party led by Panos Kammenos repeatedly made clear its opposition to Troika imposed austerity measures and its participation will perhaps assuage more conservative Greeks that issues such as defence and policing will not be solely decided by a bunch of "wild radicals".
Record-setting Tsipras
Back to the unconventional nature of the new Greek Prime Minister, this article summarizes the many "records" of Tsipras":
Youngest Prime Minister (40 years old).
First PM born after "Metapolitefsi"
First atheist Greek PM
First unmarried Greek PM; he has only made cohabitation agreement.
First Greek PM who hasn't baptised his children, but has made a civil naming ceremony.
6.
First Greek PM who takes a civil oath instead of the traditional religious oath.
7.
First PM to attend swearing-in ceremony tieless.
8.
First PM to originate from middle social class and not from traditional "political families".
In Greece, where Church and State still move hand-in-hand, "every senior office-holder, from socialists to right-wing dictators, has assumed the post with a ritual involving Bibles, crosses and often holy water".
But this year, Alexis Tsipras politely informed the Archbishop that his services wouldn't be required and that a junior cleric would be invited for those who wished to take a religious oath.
A breakthrough like this couldn't pass unnoticed in Greece's Twittersphere:
Eight members of new government (mostly Ind Greeks) opt for religious swearing in ceremony #Greece pic.twitter.com/PhTOzg0mSY — Derek Gatopoulos (@dgatopoulos) January 27, 2015
Watching a #Greek govt swear a #political oath is as rare as seeing a polar bear on the #Acropolis. — Bruno Tersago (@BrunoTersago) January 27, 2015
This is unprecedented, no priests.
Say what you will about #Tsipras, but there are no priests!!! pic.twitter.com/RDR4TPiztj — elly vintiadis (@EllyVintiadis) January 26, 2015
The first official press release of New Democracy as an opposition party was simply its disapproval of the new government's secular oath:
A very bad start for Mr. Tsipras.
He shows off ignoring a long tradition of the Hellenic Nation, whose course is interwoven with Orthodox Christianity.
Tsipras' first week as Prime Minister
After his inauguration, Tsipras visited the National Resistance Memorial in Kessariani to honour Greeks killed by Germany and her allies in WWII:
Eternal memory to you, brethren, who fell at your honest struggle
The event took place on the eve of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz, German Nazi concentration camp:
Merkel , who will mark 70th anniversary of Auschwitz liberation today, will surely appreciate #Tsipras remembering Greece anti-Nazi fighters — Damian Mac Con Uladh (@damomac) January 26, 2015
Some netizens did not welcomeTsipras' bold moves:
Civil oath, wreath dedication to Greek Resistance fighters' place of sacrifice.
This is not a Greek Prime Minister.
Another political tradition in Greece is the welcoming of the new prime minister by the former one in Maximos Mansion, the official seat of state.
But the event wasn't attended by outgoing prime minister Samaras.
The event was gravely criticized even by conservatives, including ex-government spokesman Antonaros:
This is a problematic behavior, exposing the entire political party.
Grandeur in defeat is the big difference that defines a great leader.
The worst PM after Metapolitefsi finishes his term as suited: with pettiness. Antonis leaves...
"First party : indignation. Second party : convenience and comfort. Third party : uneducation.
The three characteristics of Greeks.
Source: Facebook page "Frappe Ministry"Last but not least, all eyes are on the far-right Golden Dawn's third place in the Greek Parliament. Seventeen MPs from the party were elected.
#GoldenDawn got ~38.000 votes and one seat less than in 2012.
Argentina Creates Registry of Interpreters of Indigenous Languages · Global Voices
Pilagá Indigenous from Formosa Province in Argentina - Image: Laura Schneider
Following the case of Reina Maraz, a Bolivian Quechua who was detained in Argentina for three years without knowing why, the Court of Buenos Aires province has approved the Registry of Translators for Indigenous Languages.
According to research from the Instituto Nacional de Asuntos Indígenas (National Institute of Indigenous Affairs), during 2004-2005 it recognized the existence of 38 native people communities based on a Complementary Poll of Indigenous Communities from Argentina:
Rangoon Revealed Facebook Page 'Tells Burma's Story, One Soul at a Time' · Global Voices
"I sew rags for a living while my husband earns a living as a trishaw driver.
I earn about 2000ks every day, taking old clothes, fixing them up and selling them in the market.
We have three kids and are doing our best to support them.
See, 2000 kyats is not enough to support a person's daily needs unlike what one of those ignorant politicians said."
Photo courtesy Rangoon Revealed Facebook page.
A group of teenagers from Myanmar has created a Facebook page called "Rangoon Revealed", which offers an intimate look into the life of ordinary people in Yangon, the former capital of Myanmar.
Myanmar was formerly known as Burma while Yangon was called Rangoon.
Initiated by Thaw Htet and Zwe Paing Htet, "Rangoon Revealed" seeks to "tell Burma's story, one soul at a time" by uploading photos of Yangon residents plus a brief description of their lives.
Asked by Global Voices about their inspiration in launching this online project, the two young Yangon residents said they wanted their readers to understand better the lives of ordinary Burmese.
They added:
We want to capture the voices of the poor people and those who are struggling in their life.
There may be some foreigners who think that the situation in Myanmar has greatly improved.
But what they don’t realize is that sometimes life has become even more difficult now.
Some of the photos has gone viral in Myanmar like the one below which featured a trishaw (three-wheeled vehicle) driver:
Photo courtesy Rangoon Revealed Facebook page.
The photo is accompanied by a quote from its subject:
I have a twin brother who looks like me but is very smart.
I failed 9th Grade 3 times you see so I decided to support my siblings by working as a trishaw driver.
While I was working hard, my brother was studying as best as he could too. He got 4 distinctions in the 11th grade exam.
Through "Rangoon Revealed", Thaw Htet hopes to correct the stereotype that rickshaw drivers are lazy when the truth is that many of them work hard to support their families.
Below are some of photos of other Yangon residents whose life stories were shared on the Facebook page:
I am divorced and that seems to be a bad thing in this country.
Even though I can earn enough money to live by myself, people still criticize me, some times calling me 'mote-soe-ma', a derogatory term that means huntress.
It is as if people expect a women to not have choices.
What is your happiest moment with your son?
I don't have a happiest moment. Every moment I get with him is a blessing.
I'm happy when I get many customers because my boss scolds me if I do not sell much.
I came from a small town in Magwe division to come to Yangon to work.
I'm now away from my parents who i support with the money I got from selling these snacks.
I've been lifting these ropes for 30 years.
I've seen Myanmar change and this is what I have found out. Education is vital.
You kids have a chance to learn.
Make sure u try hard now so you won't have to suffer in the future.
Don't make that fatal mistake.
I wash linen and tablecloths from restaurants.
I guess the only jobs I can have are the ones that nobody else wants to do.
What was the happiest moment in your life?
When my wife first conceived a child.
When was your saddest moment?
When the same child passed away.
Language Politics Back in the Spotlight in Afghanistan · Global Voices
Afghanistan's provinces written in Pashto.
Tajiks and other Dari-speaking ethnic minorities fear that the language will dominate theirs as a result of Pashtun political power.
Wikipedia image.
Salahuddin Rabbani, Afghanistan's new minister of foreign affairs and son of the country's murdered former president Burhanuddin Rabbani, is facing a barrage of criticism for beginning his pre-approval speech to the Afghan parliament in Pashto.
The fiercest criticism is coming from Rabbani's Dari-speaking ethnic kin, who feel betrayed that he chose to speak in a language that is not his native tongue.
Pashto and Dari are the two official languages of Afghanistan according to the constitution.
While all but two of Afghanistan's rulers for the last two centuries — Habibullah Kalakani and Burhanuddin Rabbani — were ethnic Pashtuns, Dari, a local name for Farsi, is more widely used in written form than Pashto.
Dari is also the preferred language of several of the country's non-Pashtun ethnic groups, including the large Tajik minority Rabbani hails from.*
Shortly after the speech on January 27, Abdullatif Pedram, the leader of the National Congress Party of Afghanistan and an ethnic Tajik, wrote a widely circulated Facebook post criticizing the new coalition government of Afghanistan and calling it “illegal” and “anti-constitutional”. Salahuddin Rabbani had “betrayed native language and Farsi culture,” Pedram added.
When Salahuddin starts the first part of his speech in Pashto, it means that Pashto is the first language in this land.
Based on this, representatives of foreign countries will also come to the same conclusion.
This is an infidelity to native language and rich Farsi culture… I respect and love all languages in my country, including Pashto.
But the issue is one of justice.
Farsi is the language of the majority (in Afghanistan).
Many expressed their agreement with him:
Dear Dr. You are right.
What else you can expect from those who trade their identity?
Others accused Pedram of nationalism.
Ahmad Wali Hakimi chastised:
Mr. Pedram, it is pity you are spending your education and priceless life (discussing) useless things.
You have betrayed the nation, you are sick…
Another discussant, Fazl Azizi, pointed out the dual nationality of the new minister of foreign affairs, a factor that held up his appointment:
He would be better off speaking English as he has British citizenship.
In actual fact Afghan media reported that the country's lower house had approved the cancellation of Rabbani's British citizenship on January 26, paving the way for him to be approved as foreign minister January 27.
Afghanistan's parliament has still yet to agree over half of President Ashraf Ghani's ministerial nominees, many of whom are also citizens of two countries.
Both Ghani, who identifies as an ethnic Pashtun, and his erstwhile rivals for the presidency, took steps to build ethnically diverse coalitions in the run up to the vote earlier this year.
Ghani, for instance, included Ahmad Zia Massoud, a Tajik and the brother of the legendary Northern Alliance commander Ahmad Shah Massoud in his presidential team.
Many ethnic Tajiks criticised Ahmad Zia Massoud for siding with Ghani rather than his presidential rival Abdullah Abdullah, a half-Pashtun-half-Tajik who was one of the Ahmad Shah Massoud's closest friends before the latter's assassination in 2001.
Rabbani, who was Afghanistan's Ambassador to Turkey in 2011, is foreign educated and viewed as technocrat, despite having strong Tajik tribal connections through his late father.
By beginning his speech in Pashto, he may have sought to smooth the ethnic and linguistic divides in the country. Instead, he seems to have aggravated them further. * For a language map of Afghanistan, click here.
Note the map is an approximation only and is therefore contestable.
This Trailblazing School in Haiti Teaches Younger Kids in Creole, Not French · Global Voices
A 5th grade class at the Matenwa Community School in Haiti.
Credit: Amy Bracken (Used with permission)
This article and a radio report by Amy Bracken for The World in Words originally appeared on PRI.org on December 22, 2014 and is republished as part of a content-sharing agreement.
Frandy Calixte is an 11-year-old boy who lives in a small village on the drought-prone island of Lagonav, Haiti.
Sitting outside his house with his mother and teacher, he tells me he wants to be a nurse when he grows up, but his mother corrects him.
Listen to this story on PRI.org »
"Doctor," she says, and he amends his answer.
Almost everyone here is a small farmer; higher education is virtually unheard of.
But Calixte is bucking the trend by going to a different kind of school: The Matenwa Community School, just down the rocky road from Calixte’s house.
Matenwa is also bucking the norms of Haitian education.
At the start of an all-school assembly, students stand up and share what’s good and bad — a lesson they enjoyed, or how they didn’t like the behavior of other students or even teachers.
In class, students sit in a circle, following the school’s philosophy that children should be seen, heard and treated with respect.
There's another essential part of the school's method, the staff says: teaching in the students’ native language, Creole, instead of French.
Only an estimated 5 percent of Haitians are fluent in French, but it's still the language of government-funded textbooks.
“When I was in school, I never really learned French,” says Calixte’s mother, who calls herself Madame Frantz Calixte.
When I ask how she succeeded in school, she laughs. “I didn’t really pass my exams,” she says.
But of her sons?
"They’re learning better than I did," she says.
Abner Sauveur, who grew up in the village of Matenwa, was also taught entirely in French, despite not being able to understand everything.
When teachers got frustrated with the language barrier, he says, they lashed out — literally — at their students.
“The way they beat me in school, I knew the system was bad," he says.
"People can’t learn like that."
Sauveur never finished high school.
But, in 1996, he and American teacher Chris Low co-founded the Matenwa Community School to provide “education that allowed people to reflect and share their ideas,” he says, “education that lets them learn better.”
Using Creole was a necessity.
Matenwa uses Creole in all its instruction and textbooks through the third grade, when French is introduced as a second language. After that, textbooks for subjects like geography and history are all in French, simply because such books still aren’t available in Creole.
Matenwa’s co-founders hope that one day all books will be in both French and Creole.
For earlier grades, the administration raises money to buy Creole books, and students make their own.
Fifth-grader Kervenson Succès reads a student-authored book, "A Cure for Being a Pest," printed in Creole, French and English.
Credit: Amy Bracken (Used with permission)
But many parents still believe French is the language of education, even in the earliest grades.
They believe its spelling and grammar are more established than Creole, and that the earlier children are exposed to French, the better off they’ll be — even if they don’t understand at first.
“When the Matenwa school started, it was very difficult," Sauveur says.
"There were parents who would withdraw their students from school because we were teaching in Creole.”
But he says those parents have returned their kids to Matenwa.
Now political leaders from the prime minister on down are calling for more Creole education, and some are calling Matenwa a model.
Jonès Lagrandeur, the superintendent for the more than 200 schools on Lagonav Island, was also against Creole instruction at first.
“Of course! Because of the way we were raised,” he says.
“But then we came to better understand it.
I was a skeptic, but now I’m a die-hard fan.
Since Matenwa came along, we’ve turned a page in history.”
Matenwa also offers "mother tongue" training to educators around the country, but mostly works with neighboring schools.
Lagrandeur claims that’s why national exam scores on the island this year were the highest ever.
Michel DeGraff, a Haitian linguist who works at MIT, says tests already show the Matenwa students’ Creole reading skills are almost three times the average score for 84 mainland schools tested by the World Bank.
DeGraff says he can tell French-based education isn’t working just by hearing people study.
“It’s this sing-along type of tone, where often they break the sentence in the middle," he says, "which means that they don’t understand what they’re studying."
It's the same kind of studying he did as a child, when Creole was disdained at his schools.
Now, as a member of the new Creole Academy, DeGraff is now tasked with promoting the language in all areas.
But his main focus is education, including tools to help teachers teach science in Creole, and the translation of 21 math computer games into Creole.
Back at Matenwa, I visited on a Friday, when educators gathered for mother tongue training.
They got pointers and books, and they discussed how they'd go back and train more people themselves.
“In the beginning it was just us who were teaching in Creole,” says Abner Sauveur, the school's co-founder says.
“Now there are 10 schools who come here for training, every month.
When I look at that experience, I believe that after 15, 20, 30 years, I might be dead already, but it’s possible that the system will be completely changed in Haiti.”
But at the training session, Sauveur distributes manuals that seem to have nothing to do with how to teach in Creole.
They’re about stopping corporal punishment, communicating productively with students and protecting kids from sexual abuse.
So is Matenwa a model because of Creole, or because of that attention to the rights of children?
I ask the teachers: Wouldn’t this school be influential even if all the classes were in French?
Their response? This could never happen in French.
The World in Words podcast is on Facebook and iTunes. Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly said that the spelling rules and grammar of Creole are not well-established.
Last-Minute Pleas Pour In to Stop Indonesia's Execution of Two Australian Drug Smugglers · Global Voices
Keep Hope Alive - courtesy Amnesty International Australia
Time is quickly running out for convicted Australian drug smugglers Myuran Sukumaran and Andrew Chan, who face execution in Indonesia.
They are part of the Bali Nine, who were arrested in 2005 in Denpasar.
Pleas for presidential clemency and judicial reviews have been rejected.
The Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott says he has done everything he can but will not engage in “megaphone diplomacy”, according to the Jakarta Post.
Many are not convinced:
Not objecting to the execution of your own citizens is, itself, a form of megaphone diplomacy. — Sir Newt (@NewtonMark) February 5, 2015
An opinion poll taken in Australia is also the centre of controversy.
It asked, "In your opinion if an Australian is convicted of drug trafficking in another country & sentenced to death, should the penalty be carried out?" with 52% answering yes in the phone poll.
The sample size and method have been criticised.
In addition, ABC (Australian Broadcasting Corporation) radio station Triple J has copped criticism over the poll:
Bit of a stretch @DailyMailAU that a @triplej poll could lead to the execution of Sukumaran and Chan. http://t.co/VYPloxErXB #Bali9 #media — Steve Williams (@randomswill) February 4, 2015
The Indonesian government has been using the poll to justify their decision:
Indonesia using Triple J poll to justify Bali Nine executions - 9#Au http://t.co/weGQliIPAM #Aust — Tweeting Roo ™ (@TweetingRoo) February 4, 2015
Public opinion is certainly divided within Australia.
Artist Ben Quilty has been organizing against the death penalty for the pair.
He is calling for the Foreign Minister Julie Bishop to go to Indonesia:
Radio presenter Garry Linnell opposed a candlelight vigil on 29 January and had supporters: "Bali 9: Why I won't be lighting a candle for Sukumaran and Chan" - gutsy piece from Garry Linnell: http://t.co/XTnqe8tlXU via @smh — Leo D'Angelo Fisher (@DAngeloFisher) January 29, 2015
Academic Patrick Stokes has discussed arguments for and against the death penalty in the Bali Nine case, and how not to argue for the death penalty, concluding:
Bali Governor Made Mangku Pastika has said that the executions should take place – just not in Bali.
It seems it’s OK for things like this to happen, so long as they don’t happen here, where we have to confront the full reality of what is done when the state ends a life, of what it is to shoot a man tied to a stake.
Sadly, many Australians seem to agree.
While PM Abbott was drumming up support for new data retention laws, the role of the Australian Federal Police (AFP) in tipping off the Indonesian authorities was questioned:
With Abbott standing next to AFP for PR terror stunt why not ask for investigation role of AFP into Bali9 given over to Indon, death penalty — suemazzy (@suemazzy1) February 4, 2015
The Twitter hashtag #IStandForMercy is another online focus of support:
With my daughter lighting candles for mercy. #IStandForMercy #keephopealive @MercyCampaign pic.twitter.com/nyeQNNGUDR — Verity Firth (@VerityFirth) January 29, 2015
Nobody deserves the death penalty, no matter what crime has been committed.#IStandForMercy. @jokowi_do2 http://t.co/lwyx6buEgW — Janet Rice (@janet_rice) January 29, 2015
Some on Twitter have wondered about a possible racial element amongst those who criticise the campaign to save the two Australians:
Wonder how these Bali 9 dudes on Death Row would be viewed if they were white? — BRIGGS (@BriggsGE) February 5, 2015
Meanwhile the vigils continue:
Join us at a vigil tonight to abolish the #DeathPenalty and #KeepHopeAlive http://t.co/7ewm29Bo3V http://t.co/fW8TbIddwZ #IStandForMercy — NSW Women's Network (@AmnestyWomen) February 5, 2015
A rally is planned for Sydney’s Martin Place, scene of the recent siege and deaths.
Being a Member of Parliament in Uganda is a Lucrative Business · Global Voices
It is a very lucrative business to be a legislator in Uganda as Prudence explains:
Friends, being a Member of Parliament in Uganda is good business.
All you need to do is buy your way into the August House with a few sachets of salt, pieces of soap, some sugar and pledges to your local church.
Make sure that you have your academic papers right because when your opponent discovers that your qualifications are found wanting, this is one reason you will be kicked out.
In this job, you will be paid huge amounts of money every month regardless of whether you attend sessions or your are in your farm tending to your cattle, you will travel abroad with fine Per Diem, you can keep quiet in parliamentary sessions , play solitaire on your iPad or take a good afternoon nap – relax no one will hold you accountable.
Suffocating Sandstorms Hit Iran · Global Voices
"These days #Iran is sad ,#Khuzestan has been surrounded by dust .#mustseeiran #Iranlandscape #KhuzestanCantBreathe" Tweeted by Twitter user @IranLandscape on Feb 13, 2015.
This post first appeared in Arseh Sevom and is published here as part of a content-sharing agreement.
In recent years, sandstorms in the western and southern provinces of Iran have become a grave environmental concern, endangering the health and welfare of millions of people in Iran and around the region.
Residents are using the hashtag #KhuzestanCantBreathe to call attention to the problem.
Khuzestan is the province in Iran that is home to Ahwaz: the world's most polluted city.
A look at a real time map of the world's winds shows winds coming in to southwestern Iran from a variety of locations including Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and northeastern Africa.
Foolad FC, Ahwaz's soccer team recently tweeted images of players practicing in the polluted air:
This is #Ahwaz #KhuzestanCantBreathe
Eleven NGOs have written to UN officials to highlight the problems in southwestern Iran, asking them to put pressure on the government to respond to the crisis.
Their letter can be read here.
Interview with Sam Khosravi
Heavy sandstorms have obscured the sky and devoured the land in cities such as Ahwaz in southwest Iran.
These storms have contributed to making Ahwaz the most polluted city in the world.
Sam Khosravi
Arseh Sevom asked environmental researcher Sam Khosravi to comment on the origin of the sandstorms and the high levels of pollution.
We asked him several questions.
Is Khuzestan suffering from the result of industrial pollution, as is Tehran?
Why has the frequency and severity of the storms increased in recent years?
What can you tell us about the origin of the sand and dust storms?
Basically, dust storms can be caused by a variety of sources, both industrial and natural.
Current reports on what is occurring in Iran show that this sudden influx of sand storms does not have solely an industrial cause.
There must be a source of these sandstorms.
Three sources for this combined natural and human disaster have been identified so far.
Satellite images show that Syria and Iraq have played a key role over a certain period of time.
Deserts in North Africa are another source of sand and dust as well.
Studies conducted at the University of Tehran show the storms are also caused by the degradation of wetlands.
In order to ascertain a precise cause we need to conduct more independent research.
Sandstorms are not new to the region.
Why have recent ones created such a dire situation for the people and the region?
Deterioration of water resources and the disappearance of natural barriers combined with atmospheric changes have made the storms worse.
Some models predict even more storms in the (near) future as well.
How can this environmental crisis be solved?
We've had these kinds of storms in Iran for a long time, think of the "Nashi" wind in the southern part of the country, for example.
The problem is that in comparison to the past, the intensity and frequency of these storms has increased.
There is no short-term solution.
The problem was not created in one night and cannot be solved that in one night either.
In the short-term, we need to think about the health of the residents of the region and provide them with tools to mitigate the effects of the storms.
Working hours in the governmental organizations should be decreased, relief groups should be active in various areas of the region and ventilation equipment should be used in homes.
Long-term solutions are quite difficult.
They will take time and money.
In view of the current situation in the Middle East, especially in Syria, Iraq and Iran it is unlikely that anything will be done.
A serious effort needs to be made to revive dead ecosystems.
It's quite difficult but I think it's possible.
This is a translation of a post originally in Farsi.
Tweet in Your #MotherLanguage to Celebrate Linguistic Diversity Online · Global Voices
Tweet bird Image by Id-iom and used under a CC BY-NC 2.0 Creative Commons license.
Of the approximately 7,000 languages spoken around the world, only a small fraction are found on the Internet.
On the platform Twitter, 85% of the tweets are written in one of just eight languages, according to one study - not exactly an accurate reflection of the planet's cultural and linguistic diversity.
Even though more and more communities are beginning to discover the possibilities of sharing their language online, much more can be done to raise awareness and highlight these efforts.
For International Mother Language Day on February 21, Rising Voices, along with our organizing partners the Living Tongues Institute, Endangered Languages Project, and Indigenous Tweets, as well as a wide range of participating partners, are coming together to launch the campaign “Tweet in Your #MotherLanguage.”
Through this online campaign, we want to recognize and encourage Internet users who are sharing their language on Twitter with a special focus on indigenous, endangered and minority languages, all of which may not be as well represented online.
It's easy to get involved:
Step 1 – Tweet in Your Mother Language
Tweet using your mother language throughout the day Share “Why is it important to use your language on the Internet?”
Tweet greetings or your favorite words/phrases in your language Tweet a translation to encourage speakers of other indigenous and minority language communities
Step 2 – Add Hashtags
Add the hashtag #MotherLanguage Add the hashtag of the language (i.e. #Lakota, #Yoruba)
Step 3 – Join the Conversation!
Find others using the #MotherLanguage hashtag and retweet them Search for the hashtag of your mother language and follow others tweeting in it Connect with other people celebrating language diversity
For more details on how to take part, take a look at the campaign website.
Why Tweet in Your #MotherLanguage?
Despite the increase in the number of languages being used online, many communities still face ongoing challenges when trying to communicate through social media.
Some languages lack a keyboard that allows users to write in their language, and many parts of the world still lack adequate connectivity, excluding them from the online conversation.
However, Internet communication has proven to be an important part of language preservation and revitalization.
Easy-to-use digital tools allow for more people to create content in their language, and the Internet for speakers of these languages to connect, regardless of geographic distances.
This campaign will highlight the work of many individuals and groups committed to using their languages on the Internet, many of whom may be considered "language digital activists" for their role in bridging this divide and encouraging a new generation of speakers.
We are fortunate to count the participation of "ambassadors" such as Rodrigo Pérez (@ISF_MX) from Mexico, who regularly tweets in the Zapotec language and Ignacio Tomichá Chuve (@MonkoxBesiro) from Bolivia, who regularly tweets in the Bésiro (Chiquitano) language, who created these videos extending an invitation to participate in the campaign.
More ambassador videos are on their way and will be added to the playlist:
Thanks to help of many people around the world, the campaign website has already been translated in more than 25 languages, including Odia, Sena, and Lezgian.
Many of these translations came from members of the Global Voices' Lingua Project, a community of volunteer translators.
With your help, we can pave the way for a more multilingual Internet where different languages are celebrated, not excluded.
All it takes is a tweet or retweet!
Gardeners Are Repurposing Coconut Waste as Eco-Friendly Plant Pots · Global Voices
Plant vases made of coir fibre and coir piths are eco-friendly and cheap.
Image by Subhashish Panigrahi under CC-by-SA 4.0.
Coir pots in the above picture are made from coir piths or coco peats, sourced as a by-product from coconut production.
Coir is a natural fibre extracted from the hard, internal shell and the outer coat of a coconut and used in products such as floor mats, doormats, brushes, mattresses, twist rope, and weave carpets.
Coir fibres make up about a third of the coconut pulp and the remaining portion, called pith or dust, is biodegradable.
Coir pith used to be treated as waste material, but is now increasingly being used as soil treatment, mulch and a hydroponic growth medium, e.g. use inside the coir pot.
If coir pith is artificially decomposed using biological agents, within 30 days it can convert to be 100% natural organic manure benefitting the plant.
Using coir pots that can be planted directly in the garden can save an estimated 100 million plastic pots from ending up in garbage cans.
The coconut tree (Cocus nucifera) grows in many tropical countries but is commercially exploited mainly in India, Thailand, Sri Lanka and the Philippines.
Ropes and rigging made from coconut fibre have been in use from ancient times and are found in the Indian and Arab histories.
India produces 60% of the total world supply of coir fibre. India and Sri Lanka together produce 90% of the coir produced every year across the world.
India earned foreign exchange of Rs 2,200 million (approximately $37 million) by exporting coir pith during 2011-12 and aims to boost exports by five times mainly because of the demand in the Gulf countries.
One of the inventions using coir piths is the coir pot, an asset for anyone who wants to start green farming.
Seed Germination Cup or COCO POT : Coir pots are made from coir fiber blended with or without natural rubber.... pic.twitter.com/9NslaI0ySR — Apex Coir (@ApexCoir) November 12, 2013
After planting trees inside the pot, the roots grow through the coir, so the entire pot and plant can be put into the ground – no wasted plastic pot and no wasted effort.
GV author Subhashish Panigrahi writes in Facebook:
Plant vases made of coir are the new export materials.
Surprisingly being quite cheap these eco-friendly materials haven't found a market in India.
Coir pith is used as manure in the vases.
After two years or so, when the roots start penetrating the vase, it could straight away be taken and planted.
What a neat idea!
The benefits of coir pots are that they can replace petroleum-based plastic nursery pots, flats and trays.
Although they are lightweight, durable and can be recycled, they usually wind up in the trash causing environmental damage.
But things are changing.
Plants in biodegradable containers such as coir pots are gradually becoming more available as growers wake up to the environmental consequences of plastics and rubbers.
Subhashish Panigrahi contributed to this post.
Japan Needs Apartheid, Says Influential Conservative Author · Global Voices
"Who is Ayako Sono really?"
Image courtesy Kikatarou Yamazaki (originally from Shukan Kinyobi Jan. 24, 2014 issue)
In a recent newspaper column in the print edition of Sankei Shinbun, noted Japanese author and conservative political activist Ayako Sono advocated that immigrants to Japan be separated by race and forced to live in special zones.
Sono wrote the article amidst ongoing debate on whether or not to increase immigration rates to Japan in the face of an ageing population.
Hiroko Tabuchi, formerly the New York Times' Japan correspondent, took note:
Japan needs to have a convo on racism (2) Sankei op-ed just called for immigrants to be segregated, Apartheid-style pic.twitter.com/NcdNlnUVmL — Hiroko Tabuchi (@HirokoTabuchi) February 12, 2015
While Japan has to let immigrants come to help ease the labor difficulties facing the nursing care sector, Sono says in her Sankei column, Japan needs to create a legal framework that strictly maintains the status of these workers as immigrants, and does not permit naturalization.
She goes on to cite South Africa's former apartheid system as a good example of such a policy in action.
After noticing Sono's column was causing a considerable ruckus online in Japan, Nippon.com editor and writer Peter Durfee decided to translate her entire Sankei article.
@recordpaul @Karlagollanes the only reason I noticed and translated the article was the number of angry comments from Japanese people — Peter Durfee (@Durf) February 12, 2015
From Durfee's translation of Ayako Sono's Sankei Shimbun column:
Ever since I learned of the situation in the Republic of South Africa some 20 or 30 years ago, I have been convinced that it is best for the races to live apart from each other, as was the case for whites, Asians, and blacks in that country.
Read Peter Durfee's full translation of Ayako Sono's Sankei column here.
Sono is no stranger to controversy in Japan:
@HirokoTabuchi @Durf @jonathan_soble not Sankei related, but found recent Sono essay on "positive" aspects of WWII... pic.twitter.com/yFxhbyNJL9 — Stephen Stapczynski (@SStapczynski) February 12, 2015
Top caption: "70 years after the war, anti-war sentiment based on simplistic "humanism" alone is not enough to be passed on to the next generation.
Headline: "More than the tragedy of war, we must also remember the wisdom we as a nation gained from it."
Sono's comments about apartheid are notable because, born in 1931, she has been a prominent author and conservative political activist in Japan during the post-war era.
She has served as education adviser to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, sits on the board of Japan Post, and also sits on the board of NHK, Japan's national broadcaster.
Sono also has been a supporter of disgraced former Peruvian president Alberto Fujimori, and led the controversial Nippon Foundation in the mid-1990s.
The problem is Ayako Sono is a member of the prime minister's committee for educational reform.
The Abe government is relying on her heavily. It would be a good idea to find out if her way of thinking closely matches government policy.
Other netizens have wondered just what Sono must be thinking.
Noted web entrepreneur and online influencer Takafumi Horie said: She's a little funny in the head! Others point out that such comments are parochial at best, especially considering that Tokyo will host the summer Olympics in 2020:
And she's promoting a particularly insular view of our country in the lead-up to the the Olympics, too!
One South African commentator was left feeling disgusted:
.@HirokoTabuchi @Durf @Sankei_news This wouldn't even be printed in #SouthAfrica, as it violates our Press Code and incites discrimination. — Deva Lee (@DevaLee) February 12, 2015
In China, Online Game Has To Comply With Laws in Real Life · Global Voices
Ministry of Culture's Online Game Content Censorship Workflow.
Via China Digital Times.
An online game designer, Xu Youzhen revealed in his Weibo that the Chinese authorities require that childbearing in his company's video games comply with family planning.
The guideline was issued by Internet Culture Office, Bureau of Culture Markets in their powerpoint explanation of "Ministry of Culture's Online Game Content Censorship Workflow" in 2010.
In addition to family planning law, the guideline also instructs game designer not to include content that violates animal protection laws and marriage laws.
China Digital Times picks up the story and translates some netizens' reaction to the guideline.
Afghan Woman Beaten to Death and Burned for Allegedly Setting a Quran on Fire · Global Voices
The Shah-e Do Shamshira mosque in Kabul: a beautiful building that witnessed a despicable crime.
Photo by John Zada, licensed to use under Creative Commons.
Warning: The following post contains images and footage of a graphic and distressing nature.
A woman was beaten to death and her body was set on fire by an angry crowd after she was seen burning a copy of the Koran near Shah-e Do Shamshira mosque in Kabul on Thursday.
The police is investigating the incident and have arrested four of the alleged perpetrators so far.
According to witnesses the crowd present at the incident reached into the thousands.
The country's official religious authority has refused to condemn the attack.
Farkhunda, 27, was attacked by locals with sticks.
Her parents have said that Farkhunda's action was unintentional and that she has been mentally ill for the last 16 years.
According to one of the witnesses of the incident:
They beat her to death and then threw her on the river bank and burned her.
Firefighters later came and put out the fire and took the body.
One of the shopkeepers by the mosque raged:
Before you take action you have to know what happened.
Did she have psychological issues?
Only when you know that can you take action.
You have to abide by both sets of laws.
She should have been subject to the laws of the state and of God.
We have no shortage of enemies.
How do we know there were not outside forces influencing her?
Pictures and videos of the mob beating Farkhunda went viral on social media.
https://youtu.be/bwIE99mAOeM
They attracted mixed reactions from Afghans across the country and outrage across the world.
Below is one of the pictures tweeted by Salim Zubair that shows Farkhunda with her face covered in blood.
I am furious how cruelly a mentally sick #Afghan #woman burned alive in #Kabul,what's diff b/w her burning Quran with men burning her alive? — Zheela Nasari (@ZheelaJ) March 19, 2015
Saleem Javed posted a cartoon which highlighted the barbaric act:
Afghan cartoonist reacts to burning of a mentally ill woman to death in Kabul by an angry mob over Quran burning. pic.twitter.com/mrA8xQJH5D — Saleem Javed (@mSaleemJaved) March 19, 2015
Farzad Lami, outraged by the incident, tweeted a picture which shows the police and the mob watching while Farkhunda's body burns.
SHAME: Kabul police watch after people in downtown Kabul burned a mentally ill woman allegedly over burning Quran. pic.twitter.com/OaWoj10uFV — Farzad Lami (@FarzadLameh) March 19, 2015
Fariba Nawa, an Afghan journalist and author of Opium Nation: Child Brides, Drug Lords and One Woman's Journey through Afghanistan, also shaken by the incident, wrote on her Twitter:
Local Afghans shocked by barbarism that killed and burned woman in Kabul.
Let's see if the shock will translate to action. #Afghanistan — Fariba Nawa (@faribanawa) March 20, 2015
Sharaf Baghlany was among the attackers.
After the incident, he proudly stated on his Facebook:
Hello Muslims.
Today at 4:00 pm, an infidel woman burnt the Quran in Shah-e Do Shamshira.
People including myself killed her first and then set her body on fire.
May her place be in hell.
The images below show his original post and the pictures taken at the scene of the crime.
Baghlany has not been arrested.
Sharaf Baghlany's post after the incident.
Image taken from Republic of Silence Facebook page.
In an interview, one of the representatives of the Ministry of Hajj and Religious Affairs of Afghanistan said that if the woman had acted against Islamic regulations and was not a Muslim, he would not condemn the mob's response at all.
The incident has left Afghans in shock as they prepare for Nowruz, the Persian New Year, on Saturday.
Uncertainty Over Saman Naseem's Execution in Iran · Global Voices
Uncertainty exists over Saman Naseem's death after international pressure to prevent his execution.
Image taken from the Amnesty International campaign to stop Saman Naseem's execution.
Photo: Amnesty International.
Human rights activists are still in the dark about the status of Kurdish activist Saman Naseem, who was scheduled to be executed in Iran last week.
Working until the last minute, several campaigns placed international pressure on Iran to stop the execution on February 19.
His death sentence is reportedly unjustified under Iran's own laws and international obligations, given that Naseem was a minor (just 17 years old) when he was arrested.
Activists are still tweeting #SaveSaman.
Meanwhile, conflicting reports about his execution and continued incarceration have circulated online.
Still no official confirmation from #Iran'ian officials re whether Saman is alive or not.
Unconscionable. http://t.co/9DUysoct28 #SaveSaman — Faraz Sanei (@farazsanei) February 21, 2015
The International Campaign for Human Rights reported that Iran recently executed six prisoners on death row for drug trafficking.
The United Nations has deemed drugged-related crimes to be 'unqualified' for capital punishment.
Yemen's Political Limbo Continues with Al Houthi's 'Unconstitutional' Declaration · Global Voices
A cartoon by Samer Al Shameri summing up the negotiations in Yemen
After Yemen's uncertainty being in political limbo for weeks, the Houthi militia, who took over the capital Sana'a and forced President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi and the cabinet to resign last month, announced today that they would dissolve parliament, placing their security and intelligence arm, known as the "Supreme Revolutionary Committee (SRC)," as the ruler of Yemen.
Yemen has been without formal leadership since January 22.
Houthi leaders held a three-day national conference, which ended last Sunday, February 1 by giving political factions in Yemen three days to reach an agreement to fill the political vacuum or they would take over.
Yemeni journalist Mohammed Al Qadi tweeted:
No elections, no process, no nothing..simply that rev committees now in charge "constitutionally" & have say in Everything! #Yemen — Hisham Al-Omeisy (@omeisy) February 6, 2015
Nadwa Dawsary highlighted who clearly seems to be in charge:
#Yemen: A supreme revolutionary committee headed by Mohammed Al-Houthis is now in control.
The rest are just details. #Houthis — Nadwa (@Ndawsari) February 6, 2015
Sama Al-Hamdani pointed to the military backing that Houthi seem to be enjoying:
One thing is clear from the audience of the #houthi speech at the republican palace, the Yemeni military is in their hands. #Yemen — Sama'a Al-Hamdani (@Yemeniaty) February 6, 2015
Journalist Hakim Almasmari tweeted what he had forseen:
Remember this tweet I sent out more than three months ago.
Well, "I told you so!" #Yemen pic.twitter.com/IV4wggtelk — Hakim Almasmari (@HakimAlmasmari) February 6, 2015
Former Minister of Information, Nadia Al-Sakkaf tweeted:
KSA working on a new deal that involved both Islah &GPC to turn the table against #Houthis,sounds familiar? history repeats itself in #Yemen — Nadia Sakkaf (@NadiaSakkaf) February 6, 2015
Haykal Bafanaa tweeted some realpolitik advice:
Here are some tips for the next UN diplomat who wants to try & fix things for Yemenis : In Yemen, Violence Pays. http://t.co/6TsOg2kZWk — Haykal Bafana (@BaFana3) February 6, 2015
Meanwhile Hussain Al-Bukhaiti tweeted:
Instead of negotiation in movenpiek it will be in republican palace now,doors r open for partnership in pres council,gov&national congress — Hussain Albukhaiti (@HussainBukhaiti) February 6, 2015
He added:
No statement from GPC&islah cos the waiting 4 G10,GCC and the UN stand, this show u how they depend on the outside not on the ppl of Yemen — Hussain Albukhaiti (@HussainBukhaiti) February 6, 2015
While there were celebratory fireworks after the declaration as tweeted by Yemen Updates:
Fireworks and gunfire in #Sanaa and Saada in celebrations of their #Houthi Declaration. #Yemen pic.twitter.com/4fH0vrFimw — Yemen Updates (@yemen_updates) February 6, 2015 Nasser Maweri tweeted there were opposing demonstrations elsewhere:
Another pic for the protests in #Taiz taking place now against the #houthi_declaration #yemen pic.twitter.com/4nzc86kj82 — Nasser Maweri (@NasserMaweri) February 6, 2015
Journalist Peter Salisbary sarcastically tweets:
Seems the Houthi announcement is going down well.
Only opposed by about 2/3 of country so far... #yemen — Peter Salisbury (@altoflacoblanco) February 6, 2015
Yemenis anticipate at some point a showdown between ousted President Ali Abdullah Saleh and the Houthis, whom appear to be currently working out a partnership.
Yemen Updates tweeted:
The statement reads: "Partners in Coup; Future Enemies" Saleh facilitated Houthi's takeover of Sanaa. #Yemen pic.twitter.com/0s1g7ps6F0 — Yemen Updates (@yemen_updates) February 6, 2015
Jamal Badr tweeted a chart leading to the ultimate showdown, which some anticipate:
Difficult is just how life is in Yemen, yesterday, today and every day.
It does not matter that the president and his cabinet have resigned, that the government has not functioned for weeks, or that the gunmen in control of the streets say they plan to set up a new regime to their own liking.
Families have always had to struggle to get through their days in a country where the government has long been incapable of delivering essential services.
Egyptians Gleefully Remix ISIS "National Anthem" · Global Voices
Egyptians are poking fun of the ISIS "national anthem" by uploading videos to YouTube featuring dancers swaying to the song's words
The militant group, ISIS (or Daesh as it is called in Arabic) has its own flag, a self-declared head of state and even, what seems to be: its very own national anthem.
Whenever ISIS releases a highly produced and stylized videos of them beheading, bombing or burning someone, they always have their "Saleel Al-Sawarem" song playing in the background.
Saleel Al-Sawarem, in Arabic, literally translates to "the clanking of the sharp swords."
The lyrics of the song is meant to instill fear in listeners. The words are:
Clinging of the sharp swords is the anthem for the proud ones.
Fighting is the way for the life to be lived.
Between storming and annihilation of tyrants,
And the beautiful voice of a silenced gun.
The song is part of four other releases, none of which are any less violent.
However, recently, the song was turned into a joke among social media users in Egypt.
The song is being remixed and made as a background for dancing clips, as a way of mocking the ISIS, the Al-Qaeda affiliate, which has come to control large swathes of Iraq and Syria.
In other words, Egyptians are stating that they do not fear them.
Karem Farok made the following remix under the name, Saleel Al-Sawarem - the pop version:
And some used dance scenes from Egyptian movies with the song in the background:
More videos are available on this link and this Twitter hashtag.
Mocking ISIS and those who side with them is not a new thing.
One common rhetoric is that oppression and poverty is the main reason for people in the Arab world to join such groups.
Sometimes people go further and use oppression as an excuse for them to do what they do, like with this Twitter user, who goes by the alias Abu Anas:
How come is it that when the oppressed try to fight to lift the unjustise they live in, they are considered as dangerous terrorists.
ISIS is the state of pride.
A few weeks ago, another hashtag "I am going to join Daesh" went viral, where people posted tweets like, "My brother took my charger and my phone's battery is dead now.
I am going to join Daesh", in order to ridicule this argument.
The mockery is not limited only to Egypt.
In the United States, Saturday Night Live had a sketch about ISIS.
Nevertheless, ridiculing a militant group and mocking them can be seen as a positive thing, but on the other hand, the reported video of children playing ISIS and victims in Egypt, rather than playing their usual Cops and Robbers game is worrying.
Manaliana commented on the matter saying:
How Children in Egypt Are Playing Out ISIS Execution Videos · Global Voices
Children in Mahalla, Cairo, role-playing the ISIS and "slaughter" other children ISIS-style.
Still from a video shared by @Shokeir on Twitter.
Faces in the still blurred by Global Voices.
Children from Egypt's El Mahalla El Kubra have been video-taped "slaughtering" other children ISIS-style while playing with wooden sticks.
The video raises more questions than answers on the "merits" of sharing horrific videos detailing the terror group's crimes, particularly with children.
The Al Qaeda off-shoot ISIS, which has come to control larges swathes of land in Iraq and Syria, has taken great pride in releasing highly-produced videos, showcasing how they behead their captives.
Despite a cat and mouse chase to remove their graphic propaganda online, many continue to share the videos, unconcerned by the damage they could cause to viewers.
This El Mahalla El Kubra video may have been made after the militant group “ISIS in Libya” beheaded 21 Egyptian Coptic Christian workers who had been abducted in Libya more than a month ago.
On February 15, the terrorists posted a gruesome and bloody video on YouTube that showed the beheading of the hostages, creating an uproar in Egypt, including the bombing of ISIS sites in Libya.
El Mahalla Al Kubra is an industrial and agricultural city in Egypt, located in the middle of the Nile Delta on the western bank of the Damietta branch, and is home to about half a million people.
Egyptian blogger Shokeir tweets a photograph from the video showing the children "playing ISIS" to his 44.1K followers, with the simple remark:
Children in Mahalla playing ...
(ISIS)
This tweet has been retweeted 150 times and counting.
Tamer Abdo Amin uploaded the video, which has been watched 86K times, on Facebook with the comment: Post by Tamer Abdo Amin.
Watch this! This is the impact of ISIS videos on children in Al Mahalla Al Kubra.
That moment when children in Egypt play ISIS
The child in the video describes the ISIS as fighters without allegiance to any religion or nation, before ordering his "men" to slaughter the other children.
He says:
We have no religion or nation.
We slaughter children, women and the elderly.
We have decided the following: to kill all the youth of the town of (inaudible).
Slaughter then Oh men!
Still on Facebook, Egyptian journalist Mohamed El Dahshan picks up the thread, reminiscing on the time, when children were just .. children:
There was a time when kids in Egypt, like kids everywhere, played cops and robbers.
And the cops would win.
And it made me smile.
Natural order of things, I'd think.
Then after 2011 I've seen kids play cops and protesters.
And one cop would 'kill' (well, you know, pew pew pew) one of the protesters, who would then revolt, and chase after the cop-kids.
And it made me smile - because it was funny, but it was no less sad, because kids shouldn't have to contemplate the mere thought of police brutality.
Tonight I saw this video, of kids playing Daesh, where first kid gives a little speech (incidentally in better Arabic that the minister of foreign affairs, but i digress) and then gives the order to his acolytes to slaughter the two 'hostages'. And that's not a game that has a happy ending in any possible way.
Nobody wins.
This is the saddest thing I've seen in a long, long time.
Comments on this post ranged from "disturbing" to "evolution turning wrong."
Surely watching graphic videos showcasing ISIS crimes leave a dent on adults, but what do they really do to our children?
Should children even watch ISIS crimes shared on video?
Read First-Hand Accounts of Hiroshima and Nagasaki Bombings, Translated to English · Global Voices
The Hiroshima Peace Memorial in Hiroshima, Japan, site of the Hiroshima National Peace Memorial Hall and the recently translated first-hand accounts.
Photo courtesy Wikicommons / Wikipedia user Aiden.
University students at Japan's Yokohama National University have translated testimony by atomic bombing survivors from Japanese into English.
August 2015 marks the 70th anniversary of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which killed hundreds of thousands of people.
Days after the United States dropped the bombs, Japan surrendered, marking the end of World War II.
The testimony of survivors the atomc bombings has been captured on video with English translation then added as subtitles.
The work is done by the Network of Translators for the Globalization of the Testimonies of Atomic Bomb Survivors (NET-GAS).
The organization is translating testimonies in videos kept by the Hiroshima National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims into various languages.
The video testimony is available for viewing at the museum Hiroshima, Japan.
Some of the video testimonies can also be viewed online here.
The website also features translated podcasts of first-hand accounts and translated memoirs of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings.
For a Cleric From Saudi Arabia, Earth Does Not Spin.
For Others, the Sun Rotates Around Earth · Global Voices
Saudi cleric Sheikh Bandar al-Khaibari says in a video on YouTube that the Earth is stationary and doesn't rotate around the sun.
Saudi-owned Al Arabiya TV picked on the story after it went viral on social media, airing it to viewers around the world.
Photo source: Screenshot of the video from Al Arabiya TV
There is no way the Earth can rotate on itself, says Saudi cleric Sheikh Bandar al-Khaibari, who insists our planet is stationary.
His explanation comes in a video recording, in what appears to be from a lecture, where he says if the Earth really rotated, how could anyone ever reach China in a plane.
His exact words are:
We have a brain as Muslims.
First of all, where are we?
If we go to Sharjah Airport and want to go to China Airport, in an airplane .. is this clear?
I want you to focus with me ..
This is the Earth , if you claim that it rotates, if we leave Sharjah Airport on an international flight to the China Airport, and the Earth is rotating, right?
So if the plane stops in the sky, won't China come to it?
Right or wrong?
If it rotates, will China come or not?
If the Earth rotated like this, and the airplane is flying, you will never reach China, because China is rotating and you are rotating.
How will you ever reach China?
And Saudi-owned Al Arabiya TV, which ran the story after it went viral on social media, has translated the video here (check it out for English subtitles).
On Twitter, Saudis battled it out on whether the Earth rotates around itself or the sun, under the hashtag #داعية_ينفي_دوران_الأرض, which translates to #cleric_rejects_Earth_rotation.
But the debate went further, with many claiming that the Sun even rotated around the stationary Earth.
From Saudi Arabia, Naifco digs up and shares on Twitter this fatwa (religious edict), which says the Earth is also stationary, and the sun rotates around it.
This tweet has been shared more than 500 times so far:
According to the fatwa, , which comes in response to a question poised by a teacher, it is the Sun which rotates around the Earth, and not the other way around:
Question 3: In a science class I teach: The Earth rotates around the Sun and since I have head from Sheikh Abu Bakr Al Jazaeri that the sun is the one which rotates around the Earth, those who teach this subject should fear Allah.
This is a danger to his faith as this matter makes him an apostate.
I explained this to my students after teaching the class.
Is this correct or am I wrong in this?
Please let me know, may Allah reward you.
Answer 3: What Sheikh Abu Bakr has said is correct.
The Earth is stationary and it is the Sun that rotates around it.
As a result of sharing this fatwa, this microblogger has come under an attack by readers, who hurled insults at him for poking fun at religion, when all he did was tweet the fatwa which spells out the Saudi theology's rejection of the fact that the Earth rotates around the sun.
From Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia, Musfer ben Ali reminds his 8.5K followers:
For your information, the official Sharia-compliant opinion of Saudi Arabia is that the Earth does not spin.
This man just repeated what he was taught
Despite this, Akram Wadidi is surprised that there are people on Twitter defending the cleric's statement:
What is strange is that there are people defending the cleric who said that Earth is stationary and doesn't rotate.
Not one or two ... a lot of people
And from Dubai, Hazza Al Marri remarks to his 1,200 followers:
Earth is stationary and does not rotate around the Sun and whoever says anything other than this is "a rational man, no one pays attention to"!!
Rest in peace Galileo Galilei — the Italian astronomer found "vehemently suspect of heresy" and forced to recant, who spent the last nine years of his life until his death in 1642 under house arrest for championing heliocentrism.
Iranian Television Producer Mostafa Azizi is Jailed in Iran's Evin Prison · Global Voices
Iranian Television Producer and Author, Mostafa Azizi is arrested a month after his return to Iran from Canada.
Photo by Mahdi Delkhasteh via Wikipedia (Public Domain Attribution).
After years of living in Toronto as a permanent Canadian resident, author and TV producer Mostafa Azizi moved back to Iran in January 2015.
On February 1, he was arrested and put in solitary confinement at the country's infamous Evin prison.
Next he was moved to the IRGC-controlled Ward 2-A, until finally being transferred to the lower-security Ward 8, Unit 7, in March.
Arash Azizi, Mostafa's son, told Global Voices over the phone that the news of his father's arrest only went public on March 28, 2015:
I've known about his arrest for quite some time, but our family's decision was not to publicise it, and not make it political.
Recently they came to the conclusion that they need to publicise it.
According to an anonymous source published in Human Rights Activists News Agency, Azizi has been charged with "insulting the supreme leader", "affronting the founder of the Islamic revolution", "propagandizing against the regime", and "conspiracy against the regime" and "public order".
Prior to emigrating to Canada, Azizi produced educational and scientific programs for Iranian National Radio, until moving into television as the director of the Computer Animation Unit of the country's national broadcaster, the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting.
He moved to Canada in 2009, where he was a prominent cultural figure in Toronto's Iranian community.
He founded Alternate Dream Productions, and hosted a centre called Farhang Khaneh (House of Culture) which became a centre for cultural events, such as script writing workshops and film screenings.
According to his son, Azizi decided to return to Iran because of the moderate political climate and the current Rouhani Administration's declarations that Iranians living abroad should return to live and work and safely in their native country.
A Committee for the Return of Expat Iranians was created inside the Intelligence Ministry, led by the Deputy Foreign Minister for Consular, Parliamentary, and Iranian Expatriate Affairs Hassan Qashqavi.
In a November 2013 statement, Qashqavi said:
Arash Azizi said his father took these officials at their word: Qashqavi said that Iranians abroad should come home, and that there would be no problems for 97 percent of them.
My dad hasn't been doing anything political, he's an artist.
His "crimes" are based on his Facebook posts, and the nature of his charges are based on the government's social media monitoring of his posts.
He went back to live his life as promised by the images of change and moderation.
He had moved back, given up his home in Canada, and was there for good, and was very happy to see his sick father.
To this day what he wants is to live in Iran.
We want him to serve his time -not a long sentence we hope -and continue to live there in his own country.
Iran is known for monitoring politically sensitive content on social media, which is supposedly where police collected their incriminating evidence against Azizi.
The IRGC recently announced the implementation of a new surveillance operation known as "Ankaboot" (Spider) that intends to monitor Facebook pages for "corruption" and Western-inspired lifestyles.
This program has played a role in several recent arrests, though similar police work was not uncommon before the launch of "Ankaboot".
In July 2014, eight Facebook users were sentenced to a combined 127 years in prison for their activity on Facebook, which the authorities said “acted against national security, spread propaganda against the establishment, insulted the sacred, and insulted the heads of the Islamic Republic”.
Azizi has since disabled his social media accounts and websites.
His son told us the government had created an archive of his posts from while he was active.
Amir Rashidi, an Iranian security researcher, told Global Voices:
None of these arrests are related to technical computer hacks, but based on the information users give away themselves.
Weak passwords or passwords given away by detainees...The main purpose of these detentions and threats are to create fear.
Azizi is well known in Toronto's Iranian community.
Anoosh Salahshoor, an Iranian-Canadian law student and a member of a Toronto cultural center where Azizi was active, said of the man:
A very active guy, with a huge passion for making sure that the voice of other less fortunate people was heard.
He also connected really well with the younger generation.
Mozambique Governor Becomes Target of Backlash—Simply Because She's a Woman · Global Voices Women in Praia do Bilene, Gaza, Mozambique.
Photo by Flickr user Julien Lagarde.
Mozambique's president has the power to form a cabinet and nominate governors for the country's 11 provinces.
To that end, President Filipe Nyusi, who was elected on October 15, 2014, nominated Stela Pinto to be the first woman governor of Gaza province.
Pinto is a young university professor who, before her nomination, held the post of academic dean of the Universidade Pedagógica-Quelimane.
Gaza, a province in the south of Mozambique with nearly 1.2 million residents, is typically "machista" and conservative in its customs, the competence of the recently nominated governor aside.
Some residents are discontent with their governor being a woman, even within Frelimo, Pinto's political party, according to numerous news reports.
In one case, the discontent has gone beyond mere grumbling — photos of a woman, supposedly the governor, in obscene poses have circulated online in what appears to be an effort to stain Pinto's reputation. New Gaza`s Governor swearing-in.
Used with permission For member of parliament Muhamad Yassine, there was no doubt that this boiled down to a question of machismo.
Most of all because a woman was nominated to such a high position, he explained on Facebook:
In a province known for ultra-orthodox machismo and for the use of force against opposing political parties, a Woman landed there.
In a few days, photos (real or not) circulate to please men and displease religious morality.
Could this not be a victory for the macho men there?
Or going further, looking for a conspiracy theory in Gaza, a defeat for the possibility of nominating a women for that post in a province where men think only they have the right?
Why ruin the lives of others just to get off on it?
What is so evil about the photos?
Who is smiling at the end of the day?
"Governor's competency questioned in Gaza: Cultural questions at the center of the hurricane". Machismo in the province of Gaza - Jornal Zambeze. Photo by the author
Antonio Frangoulis, a criminologist and political commentator, spoke of the question of machismo related to the complaints coming from Gaza and from within the party Frelimo in a Facebook post:
I read in the weekly "ZAMBEZE" stuff like "The population of Gaza, including prominent figures from Frelimo in this area of the country, displayed their profound irritation with President Filipe Jacinto Nyusi's nomination of the young Stella da Graça Pinto Zeca (for governor of the province of Gaza)", and it reads further, "As a way of showing their repudiation for the nomination, the population of Gaza, including members of the social institutions of Frelimo, especially the Organization of the Mozambican Woman (OMM), Association of Combatants from the Struggle for National Liberation and the Organization of Mozambican Youth (OJM), played hooky at the public ceremony of the presentation of the new leader of the Province...!!"
I am imagining when the two most conservative institutions are shown the nasty images circulating out there, attributed* to the young governor, I believe they will lack compassion with her poor soul.
It's a case of bad luck coming in threes, only I'm not sure what was first, or second, and there has yet to be a third stroke of bad luck, I have no idea what the THIRD will be...!
Ps* I don't want to participate in the debate about the veracity of the images, because I have been following along on social networks, and there is no logic in the arguments, but just logic of the heart — political passion, and as we know, this has no limit.
There were those who condemned the spread of the photos on social media.
Gito Gitinho Gitão wrote:
Social networks are tormenting our lives!
The victim of this act is the Governor of Gaza.
I deny the veracity of these photos!
However, I always say, we need to be prudent in our actions, what we do today has consequences in the future!
And girls, please avoid these little episodes of sending and taking intimate photos. Enough said!
In a blog post dedicated to entertainment called Moçambicanos Terra Queimada, credence is given to the theory that the photos were altered and that the governor was defamed.
The post calls for intervention by the Public Prosecutor's office:
The altering of photos is what it is when it has some motive, when it serves to turn some substantiated information into a fact.
It is very easy to do a photo montage and new tools permit that an image of a person is altered.
Sometimes it is funny and reveals the imagination and creativity of those who do it.
However, the altering of photos no longer has this essence when its content is malicious, pejorative, sarcastic and with the sole purpose of publicly hurting the image of a citizen.
When it is to hurt somebody, specialists in , who have nothing better to do, waste time and afford themselves the (re)invention of tricks that assault the dignity of an individual.
What would be behind such a heinous act.
All we can speculate is that it is part of some kind of conspiracy (...)
It is high time that cyber crimes in Mozambican society start to be taken seriously to hold their perpetrators accountable.
The Prosecutor General's office should act with rigor and efficacy, in coordination with the Ministry of Science and Technology, Higher and Technical Education, for the correction of these undignified acts.
Tsarist Russia Bans Internet Porn · Global Voices
Ilya Repin's "Ivan the Terrible Killing His Son," featuring former porn star Sasha Grey.
Images edited by Kevin Rothrock.
Vladimir Putin once said half the Internet is nothing but "porno materials."
While a major academic study in 2010 found that, in reality, just 4 percent of websites were pornographic, it's an undisputed fact that there is indeed a lot of adult-rated material on the Web.
If the Russian court system gets its way, however, the number of legal pornographic websites on the RuNet could drop to zero.
That's right: a district court in Tatarstan has banned 136 porn sites, and the language of its ruling implies that all Internet porn is hereby against the law.
On April 13, 2015, the newspaper Izvestia reported that a court in Tatarstan's Apastovsky district has ordered Roskomnadzor, the federal government's media watchdog, to add 136 websites to its Internet blacklist, if the sites fail to purge themselves of all pornographic content within the next three days.
The list of websites includes xHamster, one of the most popular destinations for pornography in the world.
The local district attorney's office, which petitioned the court to crack down on Internet porn, cited in its suit obscure international agreements from the early twentieth century, Izvestia reported.
First, prosecutors pointed out that international treaties constitute an integral part of Russian law according to the Russian Constitution, even arguing—rather unorthodoxly—that international obligations take priority over domestic legislation, when the two are in conflict.
Then, prosecutors cited the Convention for the Suppression of the Circulation of Obscene Publications, signed in Paris in 1910, and the subsequent international agreement signed in Geneva in 1923, both of which ban the production, possession, and distribution of pornographic materials.
The signatories to these international accords were, of course, the Tsarist Empire and the Soviet Union, and the Apastovsky district attorney says today's Russian Federation is still bound by these agreements.
According to an adult-film maker who spoke to Izvestia, Russian law is very vague about regulating pornography.
The only law on the books, he says, is Article 242 of the federal criminal code, which delineates several illegal types of distribution, but does not clearly define legal ways to advertise, disseminate, and trade in porn.
How did the Tartarstan prosecutors flag 136 websites—Russia's largest-ever single ban request—for Roskomnadzor's blacklist?
The district attorney's office says it searched Yandex (Russia's leading Internet search engine) for the terms "Kazan prostitutes" and "porno video."
Film experts at the Ministry of Culture then examined the websites on this list and confirmed that they are indeed brimming with pornographic content.
It remains unclear if Roskomnadzor will block these websites across Russia or only in Tatarstan.
It is also unknown if Roskomnadzor and the Apastovsky district attorney will stop with these 136 websites, or wage a larger campaign against the millions of other porn sites online.
Whatever happens, this is just the latest episode in a broader crackdown on the Internet that has taken place in Russia since Vladimir Putin returned to the Kremlin in 2012.
For some Russian Internet users, like musician Sergei Shnurov, Putin's third presidential term has already spoiled porn, whatever happens in Tatarstan:
Putin on the television.
Putin on the radio.
Putin's also on the Internet.
I'm afraid even to look at porn...
Have Bullets Killed the Future of Venezuela's Youth? · Global Voices
A group of youngsters in a working-class neighbourhood of Caracas, the capital city of Venezuela.
Photo from Flickr user Xavier Donat, used under Creative Commons license.
Fear, pain, desperation—there is no time for dreams, learning, or mistakes.
Venezuela's youth of the 21st century fall dead in the streets, caught in the midst of an asymmetric war pitting crime against the citizenry.
It's proved to be a crisis that's too much for the state.
The leading cause of death for young men between the ages of 10 and 19 in Venezuela is homicide, according to the UNICEF study "Hidden in Plain Sight", which the newspaper El Universal describes as the largest compilation of data on physical, sexual, and psychological violence against children and youth to date.
According to press reports, more than 90 children have been murdered in the capital city, Caracas, since the beginning of the year.
That's a figure comparable to two full school buses, ten baseball teams, or an entire symphony orchestra. 98 minors have been murdered from the start of 2015 in Caracas
China Finally Releases Five Detained Feminist Activists · Global Voices
Image from Facebook Group Free Chinese Feminists.
The families of five women's rights activists, who were detained after planning to protest against sexual harassment in public transportation, have received notice of bail pending trial.
According to one of their lawyers, Liang Xiaojun, the five, as suspects of a crime, will be under surveillance for a year and their rights, such as the ability to travel abroad, will still be curtailed.
The police can detain them again at any time or interrogate them further.
Zheng Churan, Wang Man, Li Tingting, Wei Tingting and Wu Rongrong were arrested in March ahead of the International Women's Day.
The police attempted to press charges of "picking quarrels and provoking troubles", for which the maximum penalty is five years in prison.
International feminist circles have been campaigning for over a month for their release.
The current situation indicates a conflict between the police authorities and the prosecutors.
Michigan University Professor Wang Zheng, an active member of the campaign, commented (via Facebook Group Free Chinese Feminists):
In the Chinese context, this is the first time that a group of detained social activists are released all at once.
This decision suggests: one, the unprecedented huge mobilization of global feminist and other non-governmental organizations’ support is effective.
The massive grassroots based petitions not only pushed their own respective state politicians to respond, it also demonstrated clearly to the Chinese government that this petition is not instigated by a nation- based political enemy, but by a global political force – transnational feminists and other grassroots organizations for social justice and equality.
This global political force cannot be suppressed by the Chinese state, or any national state.
And no nation state should treat this global political force as its enemy.
That would be too foolish.
Two, the Chinese government is not a monolithic entity and the decision is a compromise among different political factions or state branches.
It can be imagined how ferocious the contentions behind the scenes were over how to handle this hot potato in their hands.
The final compromise shows clearly that there were officials in the system who pushed very hard towards a positive solution.
She stressed that:
As long as non-governmental organizations’ activism for advocating and implementing laws relating to gender equality or any other issue is defined as criminal, there will be no safe zone for feminists as well as activists working in other realms for social justice.
Thus, our efforts cannot stop here with the release of the five.
As the Global Summit for Women is approaching, the professor urges the United Nations to take steps to free the five from political persecution.
The battle is not yet over, as the activist network Free Chinese Feminists has warned.
Social media hashtags for the campaign are: ‪#‎FreeTheFive‬ ‪#‎FreeChineseFeminists‬ ‪#‎FreeBeijing20Five‬
Egypt's Former President Mohammed Morsi Sentenced to Death for 2011 Prison Escape · Global Voices
A cartoon by political cartoonist @Khalidalbaih comparing between ancient Egypt and Egypt today, shared by @_amroali on Twitter
Egypt's first democratically elected president Mohammed Morsi, along with more than 100 other people, were sentenced to death on May 16, 2015.
The case of the Muslim Brotherhood member, who is already serving a 20-year sentence for ordering the arrest and torture of protesters while in power, has now been refered to the country's top religious authority, the Mufti, to be rubberstamped, before the sentence can be carried out.
The next hearing is set for June 2.
Today's sentence was handed to Morsi for collaborating with foreign militants to free Islamists during a prison break from the Wadi Natroun prison amid the Egyptian revolution in January 2011.
Among his 105 co-defendants were some 70 Palestinians, accused of being members of Hamas, who were charged and tried in absentia.
And among the Palestinians sentenced to death, Hassan Salameh has been in an Israeli prison since 1994, and Raed Attar is already dead.
Egypt sentences Palestinians Hassan Salameh & Raed Attar to death - one has been in Israeli prison since 1994, other is dead #MorsiTrial — Middle East Eye (@MiddleEastEye) May 16, 2015
According to the case brought against Morsi, Hamas militants used tunnels from Gaza to enter Egypt, where they besieged prisons, freeing Islamists jailed by Mubarak.
Among those freed were 30 top Muslim Brotherhood members, including Morsi, as well as up to 20,000 inmates.
Morsi was the president of Egypt for one year after the revolution, which overthrew Hosni Mubarak early 2011, who ruled Egypt for more than 30 years.
Morsi's reign was cut short in July 2013, following massive protests calling for his ouster.
Then, the Egyptian Army took command, under the leadership of Commander-in-Chief of the Egyptian Armed Forces and Minister of Defence General Abdul Fattah El Sisi, who is now Egypt's president.
Since being deposed of power, Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood movement was banned in Egypt, and thousands of its supporters arrested.
Among them are brotherhood supreme guide Mohamed Badie and MB leader Mohamed Beltagy, who have also been sentenced to death.
According to journalist Sarah El Sirgany, who has 85K followers, and who was at the trial:
Referral to the Grand Mufti indicates a death sentence.
His opinion is only advisory.
The judge will announce the actual sentences on June 2 — Sarah El Sirgany (@Ssirgany) May 16, 2015
She adds:
To recap: In espionage trial 16 were referred to Mufti.
Morsi not included. In Jailbreak trial Morsi & over 100 were referred to the Mufti. — Sarah El Sirgany (@Ssirgany) May 16, 2015
News of Morsi's sentence drew a storm of reactions online, with commentators across the religious and political spectrum denouncing the trial as politically motivated.
From Prisoner to President
The turn of events in Morsi's life from prisoner to president is not lost on Rana Allam, who wonders how someone who had escaped from prison was allowed to run for president in the first place.
She tweets:
Egyptian court seeks death penalty for former president Mursi http://t.co/eojr6HLKoe For jail break in 2011..yet left to run for president!! — Rana Allam (@Run_Rana) May 16, 2015
Many predict that Morsi would not be executed, as such cases can be appealed and can take years in court.
Egyptian Amr tells his 4.5K followers:
Unless #Sisi has lost his mind #Morsi will never be executed.
BUT Any remaining shreds of respect 4 #Egyptian judiciary were executed today — Amr No 2 CC (@Cairo67Unedited) May 16, 2015
And Fustat, with 3.9K followers, adds:
Neither Morsi or Muslim Brotherhood Muhamed Badie is likely to be executed in the end , their sentences will be commuted. #MorsiTrial #Egypt — fustat (@fustat) May 16, 2015
Human rights organisations described the trial as a sham.
After the verdict, Human Rights Watch (HRW) Executive Director Kenneth Roth tweeted:
Morsi got 20 years based not on evidence but police conjecture & court bias: @HRW analysis. http://t.co/XM7IUhIr4w pic.twitter.com/s67NIFSgLv — Kenneth Roth (@KenRoth) April 26, 2015
His colleague, HRW European Media Director Andrew Stroehlein added:
Court sentences ousted president Morsi to death.
More proof Egypt's respect for rights is zero http://t.co/hZg9iFgnWD pic.twitter.com/NGB5GKvElo — Andrew Stroehlein (@astroehlein) May 16, 2015
Netizens from across the region followed suit.
Omar Ghraieb from Gaza notes:
Many people have told me that they no longer understand #Egypt or the judicial system there.
I agree. #Gaza — Omar Ghraieb (@Omar_Gaza) May 16, 2015
And Bahraini Adel Marzooq writes to his 39.1K followers:
Define shame?
The answer is: The Egyptian judiciary, and the laws, mechanisms and procedures it has instilled and exported to the other Arab countries (including Bahrain) which follow Egyptian laws and appoints Egyptian judges
Millions of People Around the World Commemorate the Armenian Genocide · Global Voices
Armenian Genocide Centenary march in Yerevan, April 24.
Photo by Joey Ayoub.
Millions of people marched on April 24 to commemorate the Armenian Genocide Centennial.
The day marks the date when Ottoman authorities began rounding up around 250 Armenian intellectuals and community leaders in Constantinople, paving the way for the Armenian Genocide in which an estimated 1-1.5 million Armenian citizens of the Ottoman Empire were systematically exterminated between 1915 and 1918.
In Yerevan, hundreds of thousands of Armenians and foreigners took part in a massive march from Republic Square to Tsitsernakaberd, the Armenian Genocide Memorial.
This Global Voices author participated and took photographs.
Armenians and supporters arrive at Tsitsernakaberd, April 24.
The eternal flame is seen as a man lays a flower inside Tsitsernakaberd, April 24.
Photo Taken by Joey Ayoub.
Armenians and supporters arrive laying flowers inside Tsitsernakaberd, April 24.
In Los Angeles, home of the largest Armenian community outside of Armenia, over 100,000 Armenians and supporters marched towards the Turkish consulate. Many marchers have reached Turkish consulate on Wilshire Blvd. @Sky5Tim is overhead.
Many Lebanese have spent the last few days celebrating their Armenian heritage.
Yesterday's march in Beirut to mark the centennial of the #ArmenianGenocide. pic.twitter.com/uSoZxdDEuX — Mahmoud (@MahmoudRamsey) April 25, 2015
Lebanese Armenians and supporters marched on April 24.
Photo by Paul Gorra.
In Istanbul, Turks, Kurds, Greeks and Assyrians describe their fears that nationalists would spoil their rallies.
The following story was shared by the Armenian Diaspora Project on Facebook.
The march in Istanbul on April 24.
Photo shared by The Armenian Diaspora Project.
The caption reads:
Yesterday was an indescribable day.
My biggest fear going into the commemoration of the Armenian Genocide in Istanbul was that Erdogan, with elections approaching and a need to appeal to the MHP/nationalist voters, would see our presence on Istiklal Cd as a threat and that the police would then melt away, allowing the nationalist protestors to break through their lines and attack us.
As we sat facing towards Taxim Square, we could hear the shouts from the nationalists at our backs every time the speakers would cut out.
Chillingly it seemed to get louder and louder, as if they were edging nearer and nearer.
Then - as the sounds of Sareri Hovin Mernem faded- we heard a loud cheer from much closer, and then chants growing louder and louder, a sound I had heard countless times in my years of covering protests; the sound of protestors breaking through police lines.
As we stood up to face what was coming, we saw them.
Not angry nationalists waving the red flags of the Vatan Party, but thousands of Turks, Kurds, Greeks, and Assyrians, bearing signs reading "հո՛ս էնք" (We are here), bearing the pictures of Hrant Dink, Gomidas, Sevag Balikci, Taniel Varujan and many others, the streets echoing with their chants of solidarity.
A friend ran through the stunned crowd, arms wide open shouting "They are here with us!
They have filled the street!"
So thank you.
Thank you Turks, Kurds, Assyrians for standing with us.
Thank you Turkish human rights groups for organizing the commemoration at Hydarpasa.
Thank you Istanbul Armenians.
Thank Osman Kavala.
Thank you Sarah Leah Whitson, Nancy Kricorian, Heghnar Watenpaugh, and everyone else at Project 2015.
There is no place else I would have rather been this week.
In Diyarbakir, Turkey, home to a large Kurdish population, people marched on April 24:
People in Amed (Diyarbakir) march to remember the #ArmenianGenocide/Seyfo. pic.twitter.com/3G6UeXmm1z — Lawên (@Lawwwen) April 24, 2015
Paris and Rome saw their most famous landmarks turn their lights out to commemorate the Armenian Genocide:
In Paris, the Eiffel Tower goes dark to commemorate the #ArmenianGenocide 100yrs later. pic.twitter.com/fZ4yHbgSNm via @armembfrance — reported.ly (@reportedly) April 24, 2015
"The eternal city- #Rome, the Colosseum goes dark in memory of #ArmenianGenocide victims" pic.twitter.com/DXX3GWeJib via @TMkrtchyan — reported.ly (@reportedly) April 24, 2015
For more photos from around the world, view this coverage by RT.
Why Aren't Uganda's Journalists Asking the Tough Questions? · Global Voices
Ugandan journalists covering peace keeping mission in Somalia.
Photo shared by Aidah Nalubega on Facebook.
Used with permission
Despite challenges to press freedom from the government, Uganda generally has a vibrant media industry.
According to Freedom House, there are more than two dozen daily and weekly newspapers and more than 180 private radio stations.
But some argue that the quality of journalism in Uganda is 'going to the dogs'. Stories and analyses lack depth and quality.
Several issues, particularly those of a political nature, remain ignored because journalists do not have the courage to question what is going on in the country.
According to the Kampala-based African Centre for Media Excellence, Ugandan journalists have also been accused many times of engaging in corruption to cover up stories.
Around 100 journalists were reportedly paid money in 2014 for favourable coverage of Uganda's former Prime Minister Amama Mbabazi.
In 2011, the government allocated money to pay journalists to promote positive coverage of government projects, particularly in the oil sector.
Samson Tusiime, a lawyer by profession and the co-founder of Veritas Interactive, @SchoolPlusUg and @QlikSocial, fired the following questions to Ugandan journalists:
I would like any journalist in print to tell me why I should take them seriously when they sell 30K copies yet we are 38M Ugandan. — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
I would like any journalist to tell us why violent crime has a pattern of coordination and leadership yet we never arrest top shots — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
I would want any journalist to tell me how investing $300M in car production for Kira EV is a comparative advantage for Uganda — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
Kiira EV is Uganda's first electric car that was built by Makerere University students in 2011.
Tusiime further asked them to verify statistics that non-governmental organizations release to the public:
I would also like a journalist to interrogate NGOs stats of 300K children are aborted every year. That's like 1% of Uganda kila year — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
I am challenging any journalist to tell what is actually involved in the UGX 1B for every KM tarmacked. — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
UGX is the Ugandan shilling.
One dollar is equivalent to 2,990 UGX.
I am also challenging any journalist to tell us which Ugandan company is exporting illegal ivory from Ituri and other provinces — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
Ituri is in the North Eastern Province in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The Ituri forest is home to the largest remaining population of forest elephants.
I would like a journalist/researcher to tell us why our fish are dwindling yet there is no correlation to fish exports and consumption. — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
I am challenging any journalist how a single bridge that's not on a major river can cost UGX 7B — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
I am also challenging any journalist to ask why we spend $800K on tourism promotion and marketing , an industry that earns $400M — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
I am also challenging any journalist to tell us why we export more gold than what we actually mine. — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
I am challenging any journalist worth their salt to expose police cartels extorting money from people under the police bond scam.Any takers? — Sam (@Samwyri) May 1, 2015
These questions led to the creation of #SamwyriQNS hashtag where other Ugandans joined Samson Tusiime in questioning Ugandan journalists:
Why did Uganda conceal the Kibwetere report even after destroying massacre site? #SamwyriQns — Sam Agona (@samagona) May 2, 2015
Joseph Kibweteere is the cult leader of the Movement for the Restoration of the Ten Commandments of God.
A hundred members of the cult were burnt to death in 2000.
Julie, a social media enthusiast, challenged journalists:
#SamwyriQNS an explanation is needed on why we import dairy products yet the country can produce more than we can consume. — Elektrolyte (@julimuffn) May 2, 2015
This user admitted that these were tough questions:
These #SamwyriQNS are a hard paper.
My journalists friends have said no to most of them.
They fear for their lives. — Only In 256 (@OnlyIn256) May 2, 2015
Kevin, a Ugandan blogger, noted:
TL Journalists are usually quickest to jump on trending* stories.
But I don't see any jumping to give @Samwyri answers. #SamwyriQNS — Kevin™ (@kevrx) May 2, 2015
Frank Tumusiime, a water and sanitation specialist, revealed one of the reasons that may be behind falling journalism standards in Uganda:
Media houses keep young journos on payroll without contracts.
What quality of articles do we expect of folks without security? #SamwyriQNS — Fredrick Tumusiime (@tufre80) May 2, 2015
Another one, Daneri Akiiki, said:
As soon His Highness the Aga Khan lands in Ug, his 1st courtesy call is Statehouse and one expects newspapers to dig into #SamwyriQNS; No! — Daneri Akiiki (@_pensioner) May 2, 2015
The Aga Khan owns the largest private media house in East and Central Africa.
For those journalists who do dare to report on sensitive issues, they have regularly faced harassment from the government.
In May 2013, Ugandan authorities shut down two newspapers after they reported on a letter written by the country's coordinator of intelligence services asking for an investigation into a plan to groom the eldest son of President Yoweri Museveni to succeed the the leader.
Will Icelanders One Day Ditch Their Language for English? · Global Voices
A mini Icelandic language lesson on the back of Icelandair's headrest.
Photo by Flickr user jayneandd.
This article and radio report by Patrick Cox for The World in Words originally appeared on PRI.org on June 3, 2015, and is republished here as part of a content-sharing agreement.
Jón Gnarr is best known as the comedian who became the mayor of Reykjavik.
Listen to this story on PRI.org » He’s also a great lover of the Icelandic language — and he fears for its future.
“I think Icelandic is not going to last,” says Gnarr.
“Probably in this century we will adopt English as our language.
I think it’s unavoidable.”
This is not an outlier view.
Some linguists believe it is a distinct possibility that Icelandic will lose out to English.
Among them, Ari Páll Kristinsson who is in charge of language planning at the Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies, the Icelandic government's language research agency.
“English is everywhere now, from the moment we wake up until we die,” says Kristinsson.
He means that quite literally.
Births take places with the aid of medical devices whose instructions are in English, so hospital staff must be able to read English.
And at funerals, Kristinsson says, friends and family often remember their loved one with songs sung in English.
It’s a big deal for any linguistic group to witness the marginalization of their mother tongue.
It’s especially poignant for Icelanders.
Consider this survey devised by Zuzana Stankovitsova, a Slovak who has lived in Reykjavik for the past few years, studying the Icelandic language.
She sensed that Icelanders had unusually strong feelings about their language. To test this, she asked Slovaks and Icelanders to define their nationality.
Most of the Slovaks said, “I am Slovak because my parents are Slovak.” Or, “I am Slovak because I was born in Slovakia.”
Icelanders responded differently. Usually, along the lines of, “I am Icelandic because I speak Icelandic.”
Land, nation and tongue
Most adult Icelanders recall singing a song at school called “Land, Nation and Tongue.” It’s based on a poem by Snorri Hjartarson, written in 1952 when Iceland was a new nation.
“Land, nation and tongue was a divine trinity — not the divine trinity.
But on a similar level as that,” says Kristinsson.
He says this patriotic belief was instilled in him as a child.
“If we lost the Icelandic language, there would be no Icelandic nation,” says Kristinsson.
“And if there’s no Icelandic nation, there is no Icelandic sovereignty.”
Iceland only won full independence, from its colonial master Denmark, during World War II.
The divine trinity was finally in place.
But almost immediately there was a challenge to the language, though not recognized at the time.
It came in the form of 40,000 US troops who were stationed in Iceland during the war.
The US military didn’t completely leave until 2006.
By then, most Icelanders spoke fluent English alongside their native tongue.
Urbanization, air travel, satellite TV, and the Internet have all followed.
Every nation has been changed by these things. But Iceland arguably more so, more quickly.
Gone was the isolation that had done so much to protect the language.
“When I was growing up, very few people spoke English,” says Gnarr.
“With my generation, through TV and music it became necessary to understand English.”
Gnarr’s children speak much better English than he does.
They have friends all over the world who they converse with on social media.
“But they don’t speak as good Icelandic as I do,” says Gnarr.
“It’s a drastic change in a very short time.”
Language purists — and there are many in Iceland — believe that the best chance for survival would be to resist importing words from English, and to hang on to the language’s archaic and complicated grammar.
That, after all, is what makes Icelandic unique.
(Here's moreon Icelanders' attempts to update their language by recycling old words.)
If it ends up sounding like other languages, then people would be less inclined to value it.
That’s the argument.
“I think that people, especially older people, are very skeptical of the use of the English,” says Larissa Kyzer, an American who lives in Reykjavik and studies Icelandic.
Kyzer has noticed a big push to make Icelanders proud of their language.
“The afterschool program where I work has all these posters up on the wall now: ‘Icelandic is our mother tongue,’” she says.
“I had a teacher who would her children, she said they could swear all they wanted as long as they used Icelandic swearwords.”
Where is Icelandic headed?
There are several possibilities for the future of Icelandic.
Here are two.
The first draws on Icelanders’ reverence for storytelling, from the Sagas of Iceland’s early years to the extraordinary number of writers today.
Some linguists believe that the tipping point for Icelandic — the moment when it may truly leave the hearts of Icelanders — would be when the country’s poets and novelists stop writing in Icelandic.
Sverrir Norland has some experience of this.
To improve his writing, the young Icelander left his home country for a creative writing course in London.
“For obvious reasons, I had to write in English,” says Norland.
First it felt fake, but then liberating, which reminded him of a quote attributed to Bjork.
“She said something like, ‘When I first started singing in English I felt like I was lying.’” Says Norland.
“That’s kind of terrible thing, but at the same time it’s kind of freeing.
You can be whoever you want to be.”
You can even pretend you’re not Icelandic.
Norland didn’t go that far.
In fact, today, he’s writing in Icelandic again.
But would he ever write more fiction in English?
Not out of the question, he says.
So that’s the first possibility — that some writers may switch to English, sending a powerful message to their readers in Iceland.
Here’s the second, rosier possibility: Immigration may give Icelandic a boost.
In the tiny town of Flúðir, on the other side of a mountain range from Reykjavik, Azeb Kahssay co-owns Minilik, an Ethiopian restaurant.
Her native tongue is Amharic.
She has lived in Iceland for 7 years, and says she picked up Icelandic quite quickly.
“I’m more Icelandic perfect, not English,” she says.
Just like her Icelandic husband.
They speak to each other in Icelandic.
Kahssay is probably the world’s only Ethiopian who speaks better Icelandic than English.
Icelanders admire immigrants like Kahssay who’ve mastered their language.
But at the same time, traditionalists worry that non-native speakers may alter the language.
Others think immigrants may be the saviors of the language.“I’m looking very much forward to the time when immigrants start to write literature in their version of Icelandic — creating new words, says novelist, Auður Ava Ólafsdóttir.
“That’s how language should be: Alive, creative, inventive.”Just like the language of the Sagas many centuries ago, says Ólafsdóttir.
She is fluent in several languages but says she would only ever write in her mother tongue.
“I think that the world needs stories that are told in Icelandic.”Which is what Ólafsdóttir does.
Two of her novels are translated into English.
One of them,“Butterflies in November,” is a funny, sad, unsentimental mock-epic.
You feel the influence of the Sagas.
Sverrir Norland, the writer who has written in English but now is back writing in Icelandic, believes the Icelandic identity comes with writing and speaking the language.
“If I’m telling the story in Icelandic I’m thinking about Icelandic readers, and I’m assuming they share a similar experience and knowledge about the stuff I’m talking about,” says Norland.
“But if I’m writing in English about Icelandic people, I would be explaining all kinds of different things — so it would turn out very differently.”
The World in Words podcast is on Facebook and iTunes.
With support from the National Endowment for the Humanities
How Argentinian Football Club Boca Juniors Lost Out to Violence · Global Voices
Boca Junior's flags during match against River Plate in Mendoza, Argentina, 2013.
Photo from user Rogerio Tomaz Jr.
(CC BY-NC 2.0)
Argentina's two most famous football clubs and the bitterest of rivals, Boca Juniors and River Plate, squared off in a round of 16 match in the Copa Libertadores, South America's premier club football tournament, on May 14.
Despite the intense build-up and millions of viewers, only the first half of the match was played at Boca Juniors's Alberto J. Armando stadium.
At the start of the second half, as River Plate's players were coming back onto the pitch, four of them were attacked with a toxic material used in the manufacturing of pepper spray.
This would eventually lead to the abandoning of the most eagerly anticipated match of this year's tournament, organized by CONMEBOL, South American football's governing body.
Within five days of the attack, a group of Boca's supporters were identified as the culprits using the stadium's security camera footage, with the main offender named as lifelong fan Adrián Napolitano.
The majority of spectators had left the stadium, but both teams waited longer to leave the field of play for the locker rooms, since a group of fans repeatedly threw plastic bottles at the River Plate players each time they approached the sleeve leading back into the clubhouse.
As if this wasn't enough, and to further fuel the controversy, the Boca Juniors players stayed on the pitch after their opponents had left, and saluted the fans that were still in the stadium:
WE GOT OFF EASY, NOTHING TO DO WITH WHAT THEY WERE SAYING They eliminated us unfairly, it's not the team's fault and RiBer exaggerated the symptoms
Spain's 'Indignados' Make the Leap From City Squares to City Councils · Global Voices
Facebook cover photo from the citizen platform Barcelona en Comú.
Photo by Marc Lozano.
(CC BY-SA 4.0)
May 24, 2015, will be remembered as a historic day in Spanish politics: for the first time, the political movement know as indignados, which occupied the streets across the country in the mass protests that started back in 2011, entered the official realms of power.
For the first time, the two-party system that has characterized Spanish democracy is facing a real challenge.
This is a significant development, as Spain is five months away from general elections that will decide which party will rule the country in the coming years.
Spaniards went to the polls late last month to vote in municipal elections to choose the new major in main cities and villages across the country and regional elections to vote for the leader of 13 of its 17 autonomous communities.
Alternative political parties, some of them appearing on the ballot for the first time, had considerably strong showings, taking votes from the two major political parties that had until then shared power at the municipal, regional and central government levels.
The new parties were born as a result of recent social movements against austerity, inequality and corruption, and competed in these elections proposing a profound change to the system.
Unthinkable until recently, they managed to rise as an alternative to major traditional parties.
They advocate for the end to official auto fleets and speculative projects and support taxing electrical companies, fining banks in possession of empty houses, and auditing the public debt.
The night that election results came in was full of tension and excitement, as races were close in many regions.
Although the ruling conservative Popular Party (PP) remains as the first force in national politics, it lost 2.4 million voters and some of its strongholds across the country.
PSOE, the opposition social democratic party, lost 700,000 voters compared to the municipal elections of 2011, but if it comes to an agreement with other minority parties, it could regain some of its localities.
As none of them obtained the absolute majority required to govern, the parties and citizen platforms that participated in these elections must reach an agreement among each other in the coming weeks to decide who will ultimately govern the autonomous communities and municipalities in Spain.
Two women, two cities, big change
Ada Colau, winner of the Barcelona municipal elections, in an neighborhood assembly.
Photo BenComu (CC BY-SA 4.0)
Ada Colau, known for her social activism, especially as part of the anti-eviction organization known as PAH, led a political campaign in recent months representing the citizen platform Barcelona En Comú, which ran in local elections in Barcelona.
She was elected as Barcelona's mayor on May 24, 2015, obtaining 11 councilors.
Since her collective did not obtain an absolute majority, it will have to reach an agreement with other political parties in Catalonia to be able to rule the city council.
Manuela Carmena, 71, a former magistrate, ran as representative of the citizen platform Ahora Madrid in that city.
She could be the next Madrid mayor, replacing the conservative PP, who has held Madrid as its stronghold for over 20 years.
Again, it will all depend on the agreement they manage to reach, but these citizen platforms advocating social and political changes, and a shift to the left, may rise to power in seven major cities in Spain, including Madrid and Barcelona.
Manuela Carmena, the Ahora Madrid candidate, may be elected mayor- Image under license CC Wikimedia.org
Here are some Twitter messages from the two candidates, conveying ideas, programs and even support inside and outside the country: It is an honor to discuss the future of the cities with Uruguayan President Pepe Mujica, who is a great example for me
Yemen's Heritage, a Victim of War · Global Voices
A captivating view of Old Sana'a by photographer Ameen Alghabri
Yemen, one of the oldest centers of civilization in the Arab World and also the poorest Arab country, has been pounded by airstrikes led by its rich neighbour Saudi Arabia for almost three months.
The operation began after rebel group Houthis took over the capital Sana'a, causing President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi to flee to the port city of Aden and shortly after seek refuge in the Saudi capital, Riyadh.
Over 2,500 people have been killed and 11,000 injured since the war started on March 25.
One million people have been internally displaced in Yemen and 21.1 million — 80 per cent of the population — are in need of humanitarian assistance, according to the latest report by the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA).
Yet the country's residents have not been the only victim of this war.
Yemen's heritage has also suffered.
On May 9, Saudi jets targeted the Mosque of Imam al-Hadi in the city of Saada, a Houthi stronghold.
The mosque is the third oldest in Yemen and was built 1,200 years ago.
Saudi raids target the Imam Al-Hiadi's historic mosque in Saada.
Video from Houthi TV Almasirah. #Yemen #Peace4Yemen https://t.co/6K1v8e0BO9 — Yemen Updates (@yemen_updates) May 9, 2015
Pic of Al-Hadi mosque of Saada province being hit today by Saudi airstrikes,4killed&10others wounded. #Yemen pic.twitter.com/DO1mjxGPEK — Fatik Al-Rodaini (@Fatikr) May 9, 2015
Jamila Hanan, a humanitarian activist, shared photographs of the ancient and beautiful mosque in her tweet:
Reading about beautiful Al-Hadi Mosque in #Saada #Yemen built in 9th century.
Struggling to grasp that it was bombed. pic.twitter.com/5x5qSL3CQd — Jamila Hanan (@JamilaHanan) May 9, 2015
On May 11, the old city of Sana’a, Yemen’s capital and one of the oldest inhabited cities in the world, was heavily bombed overnight, causing severe damage to many of its historic buildings.
Other areas damaged by airstrikes were the old city of Saada and the archaeological site of the pre-Islamic walled city of Baraqish, causing UNESCO Director-General to issue a statement calling on all parties to protect Yemen’s cultural heritage.
Ms. Irina Bokova said:
I am particularly distressed by the news concerning air strikes on heavily populated areas such as the cities of Sana’a and Saa’dah.
In addition to causing terrible human suffering, these attacks are destroying Yemen’s unique cultural heritage, which is the repository of people’s identity, history and memory and an exceptional testimony to the achievements of the Islamic Civilization...I call on all parties to refrain from any military use or targeting of cultural heritage sites and monuments, in respect of their obligations under international treaties
On May 24, two Saudi airstrikes targeted the ancient Al-Shareef Citadel in the city of Bajel in Hodeida province.
Yemen Heritage is under Saudi strikes Pix of al-Shareef Castel, Bajel city of Hodeida.
W #Yemen hit 3times by Saudi pic.twitter.com/o39QAGsVQZ — Fatik Al-Rodaini (@Fatikr) May 28, 2015
On June 4, Dar-al-Hajar (Rock Palace), perched atop a rock in Wadi Dhar, north of Sana'a built by Imam Mansur in 1786 AD, was reportedly targeted by Saudi airstrikes.
Dar al-Ahajer was hit today by KSA jets.
Also the country's hertiage and history are under Saudi fires. #Yemen pic.twitter.com/ZL4hrP49bZ — Fatik Al-Rodaini (@Fatikr) June 4, 2015
On May 25, Dhamar's Regional Museum, hosting thousands of artifacts from the Himyarite civilisation, was completely destroyed by Saudi airstrikes.
Yemen Post News tweeted photographs of the castle as it was being hit and before and after photographs showing the damage. AlQahera Castle DESTROYED: One of #Yemen TOP historical sites& #UNESCO heritage site hit by #Saudi Airstrikes #اليمن pic.twitter.com/DfEhHW7Uwd — Yemen Post Newspaper (@YemenPostNews) June 4, 2015
BEFORE & AFTER ATTACK: 800 year old Historical AlQahera Castle in Taiz no more thanks 2 Saudi Missiles #Yemen #اليمن pic.twitter.com/9QLtSncaKu — Yemen Post Newspaper (@YemenPostNews) June 8, 2015
The destruction of all these heritage sites by Saudi airstrikes across Yemen seemed to go unnoticed until the morning of June 12, when a Saudi missile hit the Qassimi neighbourhood in Old Sana'a, listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site and boasting 9,000 mud houses, some of which are built before the 11th century.
@CNN 's late night report on the destruction in the Old City of #Sanaa #Yemen https://t.co/VMF3m5NKVA — Alex Potter (@alexkpotter) June 13, 2015
The director general of UNESCO once more condemned and deplored the attack on Old Sana'a.
In a statement she said:
I reiterate my call to all parties to respect and protect cultural heritage in Yemen.
This heritage bears the soul of the Yemeni people, it is a symbol of a millennial history of knowledge and it belongs to all humankind.
Ahmed Al-Sayaghi shared photographs of the Qassemi neighbourhood in Old Sana'a before and after the missile attack, showing the destroyed houses.
OLD #SANAA CITY Before & after the airstrikes 😔 #Yemen pic.twitter.com/DUrMofYEF3 — • A. Sayaghi • (@AhmedSayaghi) June 12, 2015
Abubakr Al-Samahi eloquently expressed the feeling of many Yemenis in his piece in al-Araby al-Jadeed:
We have become accustomed to seeing the destruction of Yemen.
Yet, when the places destroyed are buildings you remember, streets you walked down and sights you loved, the pill is harder to swallow...Of course, the lives of the thousands killed in Yemen's war are more important.
But I, and many other Yemenis, feel a deep sense of pain when we see the destruction of our heritage, places that we want to share with the world.
It took our ancestors hundreds, if not thousands of years to build our cities in the sands and our palaces in the mountains.
All it takes is a moment for them to be destroyed.
Ali Almurtada drew a comparison to explain the feeling of Yemeni pain.
If you find it hard to understand what Old Sanaa represents to Yemenis, imagine the pyramids in #Egypt being destroyed. #Yemen — Ali Almurtada (@AliAlmurtada) June 13, 2015
Yemen perhaps is a poor country economically, but is very rich culturally with its heritage and history, a source of pride to Yemenis and a painful loss to witness its destruction.
It seems Saudi Arabia's "Operation Restoring Hope" has turned into "Operation Destroy History".
Today, Yemenis cry over human and stone, life and history, which are destroyed in the war by all parties, ousted president Saleh and Houthi forces and mostly the Saudi-led coalition.
The Question Plaguing Post-War Bosnia and Herzegovina: Who Am I? · Global Voices
Photo by Mirko Pincelli for the PCRC/PINCH media project ‘’Bosnian Roma’’.
Used with permission.
Tatjana Milovanović explores national, ethnic, and personal identity in post-war Bosnia and Herzegovina in this piece originally published on Balkan Diskurs, which is led by the Sarajevo-based Post-Conflict Research Center, a 2014 Rising Voices grantee.
It is republished here as part of a content-sharing agreement.
If you asked my grandparents back in the 1990s what nation they belonged to, they would have told you they were Yugoslavs and Bosnians.
My grandfather would probably start talking nostalgically about the past, remembering how, as a policeman in 1984, he went to Sarajevo to work during the Olympics, or how it was to be in Kosovo during the 1970s.
My grandmother would most probably talk about how “Borac”, a clothing producer in the village of Banovići, Bosnia, was the best collective she ever worked for and how they went on the best collective field trips together.
And yes, they were Yugoslavs, and they were Bosnians.
When you ask them the same question today, they don't know how to respond and they mostly avoid talking about that time.
Grandmother says there is no point in talking anymore, as the good days of her life are long behind her, and what she has today, in this country, is pure survival.
The constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina says that all citizens of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska are automatically citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The fact is that all of us, as citizens of BiH (Bosnia and Herzegovina), carry a passport, and other identification documents with a crest of a single country and the marking of one citizenship.
When talking with a high school girl from Kladanj, a small town in Northeast Bosnia, I discovered that even today they can't explain to her grandfather that they are Bosniaks, a South Slavic ethnic group within Bosnia and Herzegovina; he just stubbornly claims he is Bosnian and he does not know of any other national identity.
The generations prior to the war in 1990s had been raised under the motto of "brotherhood and unity" of the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia and taught mostly to repress religious and ethnic identity, for the sake of society.
And really, when I think about the country in which I live, taking both its history into consideration, and also the times in which it is currently developing, I cannot help but wonder: “What does it mean to be Bosnian and Herzegovinian in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and does such an identity even exist?”
As someone who grew up after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I always faced a dilemma when considering my ethnic and national identity.
Growing up in a family that fostered Orthodox tradition, I was immediately seen as a Serb and so there was no dilemma about that; no dilemma for anyone but me, because I always felt that something was missing.
A young man reminisces on better days of the former Yugoslavia while viewing a portrait of Yugoslav leader Josip Broz Tito.
Caricature by Chloé Gaillard for Balkan Diskurs.
Ethnic symbols in Bosnia and Herzegovina have become so important that sometimes I feel like we are living in a time of ancient history and tribal divisions, where tribal colors and insignia are the only guarantee of survival.
In a time when politicians, through mainstream media, openly talk about not recognizing the capital city of this country, about strengthening the entities and the creation of independent regions, I wonder if there is a possibility of life and survival outside of ethnicity.
What bothers young people in BiH the most is the impossibility of finding a job and the resultant lack of money.
It is because of these problems that a large number of young people, daily, decide to pursue their happiness outside of BiH’s borders.
The difficulties of life today outside the boundaries of “your group” is made evident by the many cases of employment to fulfill ethnic quotas, and a tradition of employment on “party lines”.
If we take into consideration that 80% of political parties include ethnic symbols in their names, we can see the extent of problem the country is facing.
Sometimes it seems futile to talk about the existence of the country Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the majority of its citizens declare themselves as members of some other group, rather than the citizens of this country.
I wonder if there really is a country if even those who carry its passport negate its existence.
How come only an old man from Kladanj remembers it?
Why can’t we all be stubborn, and prevent being robbed of what our grandparents were?
Why do we continuously try to forget where we are from, and inside whose borders we live?
We cannot forget our religion and ethnicity because they carry in them the individuality and history of our families and ancestors.
But we must also turn to what is maybe an even higher priority, and that is all ethnicities and all religions, living side-by-side inside these state borders.
Wouldn’t it be nice if we could talk about belonging to a larger group, and finally talk about each other as proud Bosnians and Herzegovinians?
I believe such ideas of “brotherhood and unity” may seem too idealistic and even impossible today, but if you think they are even a little necessary, and if you consider them logical, not all is lost.
Even if it seems crazy sometimes, and even a little naive, I believe all BiH citizens are a little like that old man from Kladanj.
Being Bosnian and Herzegovinian today means being angry and bitter at the political system in the country.
It means living in economically unstable communities, fighting for existence every day and struggling for a “better tomorrow”.
But also, it means being proud when our athletes win a medal or when Sarajevo wins the competition of the 100 best tourist destinations.
Being Bosnian and Herzegovinian means feeling love and belonging, and carrying it always and everywhere.
Bangladesh's Monsoon Season Arrives, Bringing Joy, Headaches and Wonderful Photos · Global Voices
Bangladesh welcomes a monsoon after a scorching heat wave.
Images by Reza Suman.
Copyright Demotix (15/06/2015)
Somewhere there was someone knee-deep in water, somewhere a car had broken down in the middle of the road because of engine failure, and somewhere traffic congestion had become a nightmare for the city dwellers.
This was how Bangladesh welcomed the beginning of the monsoon season this year as heavy rain saw drainpipes block and streets turn into rivers.
With the country's summer drawing to a close, a number of heat waves had made life unbearable, leading Facebook users to post about the soaring temperatures on their timelines.
Then the monsoon season hit and scorching hot became soaking wet.
Tension gave way to relief.
Bangladesh is a land of six seasons.
Barsha (rainy) is one of them.
It comprises the Bengali months of Ashar and Shrabon (mid-June to mid-August).
The south-west monsoon from the Bay of Bengal strikes leading to intense rainfall in many parts of the country.
Some 80% of the country's total annual rainfall occurs during Barsha.
People welcomed the monsoon on social media, while criticising drainage facilities in Dhaka, the 11th most populous city in the world with almost 17 million people according to a 2014 UN report.
Journalist Probhash Amin wrote:
I love rain.
I like to walk in the wet morning especially where it is green.
I know rain makes our regular life difficult.
This morning I also faced troubles when I was taking my son Proshun to school.
Students and office goers suffer most from the morning rain.
For those people that live under the open skies, there is no end to their suffering.
Activist Akku Chowdhury wrote on Facebook:
What a beautiful monsoon day to start the morning with!
Walked to work in the rain as the avenue is blocked for rain and the PM's visit!
The advent of the monsoon always produces vivid images:
Flooding is a very common scenerio in rainy season in Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Images by SK Hasan Ali.
Copyright Demotix (11/06/2015)
Due to water clogging, frequent accidents occur on the street.
Copyright Demotix (11/06/2015).
The whole economy comes to a standstill.
But life does not stop.
People get to their destinations their own way.
Copyright Demotix (14/08/2014).
Despite its obvious drawbacks the monsoon season brings with it a unique beauty and unusual blessings.
People celebrate the season in their own ways.
As a part of welcoming rainy season a monsoon festival is held at the Faculty of Fine Art at Dhaka University each year.
Image by Reza Suman.
Copyright Demotix (15/06/2015).
People welcome the rain by going out into the streets.
Image by Bayejid Akter.
Copyright Demotix (28/08/2010).
Rainy days are the source of endless fun for children!
Images by Mohammad Asad.
Copyright Demotix (23/08/2014).
In rainy season as rivers fill to the brim, people take part in boat races.
Images by Indrajeet Ghosh.
Copyright Demotix (28/09/2013).
Kadam, a rainy day flower.
There are many poems and lyrics in Bengali literature where the Kadam flower is mentioned.
Image by Zakir Hossain Chowdhuy.
Copyright Demotix (18/05/2013).
Special Bengali cuisine for rainy days.
Khichuri, Hilsa fish and fried egg.
Monsoon tourism in Bangladesh is a magnificent experience.
Bisnakandi, Sylhet.
Image by Anawar Shamim.
Copyright Demotix (06/08/2014).
Private Initiatives Take the Helm in Solving Europe's Shipwreck Crisis · Global Voices
The Italian coastguard rescues two of the 156 survivors of the October 3 tragedy off Lampedusa Island.
Photo by UNHCR under CC BY-NC 2.0
Over 800 refugees died in the disaster off the coast of Libya last month.
According to a report by Amnesty International, the boat carrying the refugees capsized after too many people surged to one side in order to reach a merchant ship that was offering assistance.
Sadly, the April 18 disaster was not the only one to have occurred in recent months.
The European border organisation, Frontex, which provided a mandate to Operation Triton to to monitor the coasts of the EU’s external borders in November 2014, says it can no longer afford large-scale rescue work and is committed to monitoring and surveillance only, while the national coastguards of the EU member states and commercial vessels do what they can to effect rescues.
That is unfortunate, because Operation Triton's predecessor, Mare Nostrum, was credited with saving thousands of lives during its one-year existence.
Although the EU has faced criticism for its new non-humanitarian approach to sea-bound migration, Mare Nostrum cost more money than Operation Triton and migration as a whole is politically unpopular: some are concerned a coordinated rescue operation lowers the risks involved in boat crossings and thus increases the number of refugees and migrants planning to make them.
Nevertheless, Operation Triton has been unable to halt the influx of refugees to Europe.
Amnesty International claims a drastic increase in the numbers of people trying to cross the Mediterranean in 2015 compared to the same period in 2014.
According to the group's report, 2015 saw a 42 % increase in irregular border crossings in the first two months of 2015.
Several organisations and civilians continue to press for a response from EU institutions and for a large-scale, coordinated rescue programme:
List of 17 306 #migrants who drowned on their way to #Europe #Mediterranean In EU Parliament MEPs have to walk on it. pic.twitter.com/K6Y39uhMDT — CP International (@passionistsint) April 30, 2015
A number of private initiatives and organisations have sprung up over the last few years to plug the gaps in the political system.
These initiatives and organisations are aiming to mitigate the situation in the Mediterranean in their own ways.
As politicians idle, citizens take the initiative
Harald Höppner founded the Sea Watch initiative together with other volunteers in the wake of last year's Lampedusa shipwreck that killed 366 migrants to combat the worsening situation on the Mediterranean.
Sea Watch was brought to life by a number of families in Brandenburg, Germany and is currently run by a dozen volunteers from all over the country.
The project, financed by private donations, aimed to use its own boat to oversee the maritime area between Malta and the Libyan coast, to provide first aid to boats in distress, and to report on their experiences at sea to the public.
The initial timeline for the project has been set at three months.
On its website, the group writes:
We feel responsible, and no longer wish to sit idly by while people continue to suffer and die.
Sea Watch also promotes a culture of 'hospitality', of the kind preached by EU politicians but subjugated to a policy of exclusion in practice:
We've decided to fight for the humanisation of politics.
Hospitality should be a part of our everyday lives once more.
A civil maritime rescue service must be set up urgently, and the EU is unwilling.
That's why we're seizing the initiative.
The implementation of the project will begin mid-May.
A crew of 4-8 people will sail to the maritime area north-west of the coast of Libya and carry out a 12-day observation.
If they see a refugee boat in distress, the organisation will inform the relevant authorities and provide first aid, drinking water and food, as well as medical help including life rafts and life jackets if required.
In compliance with the recommendations of the ProAsyl organisation, a pro-asylum NGO in Germany, the group does not take victims onto their boats.
Sea Watch also maintains an emergency telephone line in order to convey information about emergencies to national coastguards.
Mapping the Med
Sea Watch works closely with Watch The Med, another private initiative founded in 2012.
The group has evolved into a large network made up of activists, researchers, refugee organisations and seafarers, who document accidents together with the number of dead and injured refugees in the Mediterranean area using mapping technology.
By using mobile phone data, wind and current analysis, and eyewitness reports, the exact position of the boats and accidents can be documented in order to subsequently determine who is responsible for violating international law and the rights of migrants on the high seas.
At the centre of the project is mapping technology, which creates an overview of when and where an incident took place and how many refugees were involved.
However, the maps also depict how many refugees can be saved, meaning that a user could, for example, see that Watch the Med received a call by satellite phone on April 11 from a refugee boat with almost 1000 passengers off the Libyan coast.
These refugees could then be saved after a request for assistance is passed on to the relevant authorities.
In an interview with Swiss online portal 20Minuten, Simon Sontowski, trained on the emergency telephone by Watch the Med in Zurich, spoke about his motivations for participating in the initiative:
Because I can do something practical.
Watch the Med is a real lifeline within a political and human tragedy.
Everyone agrees that it's terrible that so many people die each year, but the phrases "Our hands are tied" or "What can we do about it" often come up in this context.
And it's just not right.
Of course, we can't save them all - nor do we aim to.
But we can help to ease the pressure slightly, and with this project, we want to draw attention to the fact that it shouldn't be our aim - but that of the EU.
Why Are Latin Americans Naming Their Children 'Onur' and 'Sherezade'? · Global Voices
The Turkish soap opera "1001 nights" has been emitted successfully in several Latin American countries and has also had a noticeable effect on culture.
Photo by Ecuavisa and published under license.
As a genre of entertainment, soap operas are often dismissed as the stuff of the masses, and disregarded as amusement for women and the working class.
New research, however, suggests that soap operas possess a unique ability to mediate how people absorb new content.
New developments in the way whole nations watch soap operas also suggest that the entertainment medium could even highlight a new direction for globalization, in general.
For years, Latin America has been the world's quintessential producer and exporter of soap operas, enjoying commercial success both inside and outside the region.
Things are changing, however, and Latin America also now imports several popular foreign soap operas, such as the Turkish melodrama One Thousand and One Nights.
The series stars a widowed architect with an ill child, Sherezade Eviyaoglu, who agrees to spend one night with her multimillionaire boss, Onour Aksal, to earn the money to pay for her child's medical treatment.
The two ultimately fall in love, but not before getting involved in countless amorous intrigues and misunderstandings that keep a happy resolution at bay.
The particularity of this classic culebrón (a name given to soaps in Latin America that comes from the word culebra, or "snake") is that it could have very well been set Latin America, but it is not.
The show's familiar enough story takes place in Turkey, which provides scenery that is exotic for many watching in Latin America. It is precisely this exotic quality that seems to have won over the Latin American public.
Despite show's many detractors, it remains a triumph among Latin American audiences.
In May 2015, Concept Media, an Argentinian consulting group, published a qualitative survey about One Thousand and One Nights, concluding that part of the show's appeal is its "close exoticism" that allows the Argentinian public to approach a remote culture that is seemingly not so different from their own. At the same time, the focus group underlined that the TV show is familiar to viewers with all the classic melodramatic elements of a soap opera, highlighting the use of love stories without sex scenes as an element that has attracted audiences accustomed to the use of sex scenes in local productions as ratings boosters.
Kuma Sutra Screw-Up Nails Qatar Editor · Global Voices
Qatari newspaper editor Jaber Al Harmi quit after this Kuma Sutra henna tattoo photograph appeared in his newspaper
Qatari newspaper editor Jaber Al Harmi resigned from his post today after this image of a henna tattoo showing intricate drawings of a couple engaged in a sexual intercourse appeared on the pages of a health supplement in Al Sharq Arabic daily.
The image may have slipped through the cracks, when it appeared in an article warning about the dangers of henna.
In a letter published in the newspaper, Al Harmi apologised for the "mistake" which happened in the 112-page issue, taking full responsibility for publishing the "offensive" drawings in a daily newspaper in the conservative Islamic country.
His stance was described as brave and was hailed on social media by Qatari netizens, who launched the hashtag #الحرمي_استقالتك_مرفوضة, which translates to "Al Harmi, your resignation is rejected."
The newspaper did indeed reject the resignation of the journalist, whose career spans 25 years.
This Twitter user tells his followers:
As a Twitter user, I refuse your resignation.
I admire your bravery and for your admission at a time when many refuse to face up to their actions.
This is why your resignation is rejected
Faisal bin Jassim Al Thani tells his 267K followers on Twitter:
Mr Jaber's resignation is proof that he is an honest person, who bravely shoulders responsibility and is able to assess situations.
He has transformed the newspaper.
And Al Harmi's own son, Salem, confesses:
I have never met anyone who loves his job like my father.
And when you ask him why, he says: Everyday there is something new and a new challenge.
He has completed 25 years in journalism
In an old post on Paraglider, Dave McClure, a Qatar resident, explains why any hint of sex is a problem in the conservative country:
The government takes the view that pornography is anti-Islamic and should not be allowed in the country.
Possession of pornographic material can result in severe penalties, including imprisonment and deportation.
Pornography is treated in much the same way as illegal drugs, with similar consequences if caught.
Francophone Africa Is the New Land of Opportunity for the French Media Industry · Global Voices
A woman in tears in a screen capture of a scene from the trailer for the film Timbuktu
The Francophone film industry has experienced a nice boost recently thanks to the success of a few recent films, including "Timbuktu" by Mauritanian filmmaker Abderrahmane Sissako and the Malagasy documentary "Ady Gasy".
Other successful projects have showcased the undeniable growth of the sector in the region: "Les Chevaux de Dieu" (God's horses) from Morocco, "La Pirogue" (The Boat) from Senegal, "The River" from Algeria and "Angano Angano" from Madagascar.
While the France-based film industry is having a hard time finding prosperity worldwide, the African continent may turn out to be its saving grace.
In fact, that observation could be expanded to the entire French media industry.
Still, while the continent is a land of growing opportunities for the sector, the media market still has a few shortcomings that hinder its development.
The promised land for Francophone media
By 2050, an estimated 85% of French speakers will reside in Africa.
Africa is home to a very young population with a growing enthusiasm for screens.
French media producers quickly understood the potential for success in this market, one where almost everything is still in need of structure from a communication technology standpoint: The continent is still lacking a solid legal structure in information technology (World Bank report PDF) and needs to grow its Internet network (PDF ITU report) in order to provide fast connections to its growing middle class.
French media producers realized the potential as early as the 2000s and have tried to develop the market.
Several collaborations emerged between French channels TV5 and CanalSat and West African TV channels.
Following the steps of these pioneers, other French TV networks such as the music channel Trace TV decided to install a local agency in the region.
That decision proved to be judicious for Trace TV as Africa represents one-third of its turnover today.
Trace TV is even looking into expanding its network into mobile phone and radio.
Screen shot of documentary “Ady Gasy” by par Lova Nantenaina via YouTube
Despite these successes, there are still very few French companies that have dared to fully embrace the opportunities the continent has to offer.
The window might be closing soon though because media groups from China and North America have seized the opportunity.
An elusive market for French media entrepreneurs
So why the hesitation from French entrepreneurs?
While French media seems like a natural linguistic fit for the region, the potential hurdles seem to have given them reason to pause: political instability, corruption and missing infrastructure are some of the reasons that leading groups have mentioned.
But the opportunity loss might be too great to ignore now.
Jérôme Bodin, a French media analyst, opines:
If France wants to increase its global influence, it must promptly initiate a reform of its media in order to emerge as an impactful media player.
A country cannot claim to have an influence on world affairs without a strong media and cultural strategy to boot.
The competitiveness of French television network has collapsed since the early 2000s, especially compared to their German and US peers.
Even French politicians have chimed in with solutions.
On September 11, 2014, the French National Assembly conducted a session on what policies to apply in order to have better penetration in the African audiovisual market.
French member of parliament Bernard Chaussegros suggested that the current business model needs rethinking. He opined that instead of subsidizing organizations and businesses, France should promote cooperation between locals and French groups.
This approach might allow for a faster introduction in the region, he argued.
But it seems that the French media have finally awakened from their stupor and have overcome their hangups.
For instance, the Lagardère media group has set up a television production office in Dakar, Senegal.
In October 2014, Canal+, a French media consortium, launched A+, a channel dedicated to the African continent with the ambition to become "the Top African Channel."
Following this lead, Euronews will propose in 2015 Africanews, a pan-African multilingual information channel.
At a time when European economies are stagnating, Africa seems to be the continent to invest in for broadcasting companies.
France also has to overcome a dubious past.
Its influence on the African continent has been often scrutinized and filled with controversy.
It comes to reason that France's attempt to expand its cultural influence in Africa casts doubts on its agenda.
Either way, the competition for media market will be fierce, especially in IT, and it will require a great deal of work to find a place in this new gold rush.
'Stereotypes Are Another Unregulated Way to Commit Violence Against Nicaraguan Women' · Global Voices
In an opinion piece published in alternative magazine Conexiones, Katya Najlis explores the ideas that lead to women being harassed on the street in Nicaragua.
The essay presents multiple examples and reflections linking the majority of theories defending the right of Latin American women to move about freely without concern for safety to the social conventions that perpetuate gender inequality:
Stereotypes have become another way to commit violence against Nicaraguan women that nobody regulates.
Macho sexism assumes that women's bodies are public objects.
The use of sexist images contributes to this reality, violating a woman implicitly and positioning her as an object.
Sadly, some of us women have been led to think this is “normal” or that “it's our fault” we are victims of this type of abuse, and it's because our aggressors use public transport — and especially the streets — to offend us sexually.
New Black Hand Street Art Surfaces in Tehran in Response to ‪#‎LetWomenGoToStadium‬ · Global Voices
A new work from Iranian street artist has emerged depicting a male sports fan brandishing dishwashing liquid like a sports trophy.
Image take from the artists Facebook page.
A new image by Iranian street artist Black Hand has surfaced tody on the artist's associated Facebook page.
The image is in response to the online and offline #LetWomenGoToStadium protests advocating for the presence of women during the Volleyball World League men’s games in Tehran between Iran and the United States.
Women, including female journalists, are banned from attending male sports matches in stadiums.
New work by #Iran street artist Black Hand in protest to ban on women's attendance at stadiums #LetWomenGoToStadium pic.twitter.com/VWuVNMc0cO — Golnaz Esfandiari (@GEsfandiari) June 25, 2015
Iranian street artist Black Hand has long been a fixture on social media, offering timely commentary on events effecting Iran.
Black Hand is an anonymous artist or group of artists dubbed the “Iranian Banksy” by some media outlets.
Graffiti is illegal in Iran, though authorities allow street art that supports the Islamic Republic.
The artist posts photos of the art on an associated Facebook page before they are removed by authorities.
This particular image shows a man wearing the national Iranian football team's jersey, thrusting a bottle of dishwashing liquid reminiscent of players holding up the World Cup trophy.
A similar Black Hand image initially appeared in July 2014 with a woman posing in with dishwashing liquid around the time that the team was competing in the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil.
#Iran's washing up liquid protest.
Black Hand is sometimes referred to as "Iran's Banksy"! http://t.co/FINwgOzP7W pic.twitter.com/bw88GP5uKK — Saeed Valadbaygi (@SaeedBaygi) July 14, 2014
The artist explained on the comment section of his photo's post that the image appears in the same location as the July 2014 one, across from Tehran's Park Saee.
The June 19 volleyball match caused much excitement after the government announced some women would be allowed entry, despite the long-standing ban on women attending male sporting events.
Two hundred of the 12,000 seats in the stadium were reserved for women.
Security officials, however, denied the entrance of these ticket holders a few hours before the start of the game.
Who Wants to Be Merkel?
Click and Laugh With This Random Austerity Measure Generator · Global Voices
Screenshot from Random Austerity Measures game.
Laughter is the best medicine for pain and this new online game, which appeared just a few days ago, cleverly parodies the austerity measures which have dominated politics in Athens and across Europe in recent weeks.
The official Facebook page of the Random Austerity Measure Generator game gathered more than 2,200 likes during its first day on July 15 and continues to grow.
The creators of the game have chosen to remain anonymous, but left readers with the following message:
... made for fun.
Help Greek people overcome the crisis by enjoying a nice coffee on the Greek islands!
Participants are asked to click and see what extra actions Greek Prime Minister Tsipras, Athens' former Finance Minister Varoufakis, and even debt-troubled Italy and Portugal have to take to please German Chancellor Merkel and the EU's most controversial proponent of austerity, German Finance Minister Schaeuble.
Once in play they can make "Tsipras listen to Justin Bieber for 69 hours while on heavy drugs", or have Italy "give 11 iPhones to 4% of its kids while leaving the others with old mobiles to create jealousy and envy", while Spain must "have its prime minister to stand on his one foot for 42 hours".
Another options forces "Varoufakis to dance and sing 'My Anaconda' 14 times in front of Merkel."
Global Voices authors tested the game — for research purposes, of course — and came up with some hilarious results:
New Art Project Seeks to Paint the Lives Lost in Palestine · Global Voices
Portraits of Gaza's victims by Kerry Beall (Source: Beyond Words Gaza)
"Wake up, my son!
I bought toys for you, please wake up!’".
Those were the words of Sahir Salman Abu Namous' father on their way to the hospital.
Four-year-old Sahir was already dead, with half his head blown away by an Israeli shrapnel.
An Israeli warplane had bombed his family home in the Tal Al-Zaatar neighborhood in Northern Gaza on the July 11, 2014.
Gazans were only three days into the war and already counted over 130 casualties, among whom 21 were children, in a bloodshed that would see over 2,000 Palestinians killed in 51 days.
Also Read: Hundreds Killed in War-Battered #Gaza
Sahir with his sibling (Source: Electronic Intifada).
The image of Sahir's death is too brutal to show here.
The death of Sahir was what motivated Kerry Beall, an artist from Brighton UK, to start 'Beyond Words', an art project which seeks to paint the portrait of those who have lost their lives in Palestine last summer.
Speaking to Global Voices Online, Beall explained how it hit her.
It all started when I read the story of Sahir Abu Namous, in a news tweet on Twitter.
One of his relatives was explaining how he had died.
He was only four.
It wasn't another depersonalised report, it was real.
It was a family member's plea of desperation and hopelessness.
It was so raw,\5 in that moment it hit me like a ton of bricks.
Sahir Abu Namous' Portrait (Source: Beyond Words Gaza)
Beyond Words is trying to raise funds on Kickstarter in order to meet its £3,000 (US $4,711) by the end of July.
With that money, Beall is planning on using it to "pay for materials, the portraits to be framed, help with getting them to Gaza, and providing an exhibition space to show them until they are collected or delivered."
I think I'm probably not alone when I say I felt completely helpless.
It's just so devastating, the sheer amount of innocent men, women and children's lives just evaporating.
It's a tough and overwhelming thing to think about and I, perhaps like others, often disconnect from it it so I can function in my own life.
But that day, it struck a chord that I couldn't switch off from.
I felt compelled to do something, so I painted him.
I had no idea what the response would be as it's such a sensitive topic.
I showed the portrait to his family and they loved it.
It reinforced that urge to take action, so I've gone on to paint many more lives that have been lost.
Beall ended with a note of gratitude:
The reaction has been amazing, with every positive comment it reinforces the motivation I have for this project.
I've been so fortunate along the way with people enthusiastic to help the project move forward.
For example my friend Dan, who has been keen to get involved in spreading the word of the project, Simon and Robin from Bristol who produced the video.
Mohammed Zeyara who kindly shared the video for the project which has helped a great deal in spreading the word.
A great feeling of warmth and support has been shown by the people of Palestine, and I feel I've made friends along the way with Iman, Shareef and DiaaMahmoud, who have shown invaluable support towards the project.
Here are some of the finished portraits so far.
You can see more of them on the Beyond Words Facebook Page.
Mohamed Sabri Atallah, 21 years old
Sara Omar Ahmed Sheikh al-Eid, 4 years old.
Samar Al-Hallaq, 29 years old
Hindi Shadi Abu Harbied, 10 years old.
A Workshop Gathers Digital Activists Revitalizing Indigenous Languages in Colombia · Global Voices
Participants of the Gathering of Indigenous Language Digital Activism held in Bogotá, Colombia, 18-19 June.
Colombia's cultural diversity is reflected in its rich linguistic heritage, represented by more than 60 indigenous languages.
While some languages are critically endangered, many others are alive and well.
Spoken by approximately 1 million people across the country, these languages can be found in classrooms, markets, public transport, and on the Internet.
Societal pressures and the historic relegation of native languages — not only in Colombia, but throughout Latin America — have discouraged many from maintaining their mother tongues, but young people are leading a revival of sorts, advocating their language and culture through the use of easy-to-use digital tools and web platforms.
These "digital activists" are at the center of this movement whose mission is to ensure that the next generation can find their language and culture reflected on the web.
Over the course of two days on June 18-19, 15 participants from across Colombia gathered in the country's capital Bogotá for the First Gathering of Indigenous Language Digital Activists.
Following the success of a similar gathering held in Oaxaca, Mexico in October, this event provided an interactive space where young indigenous Internet users actively revitalizing their native languages could meet to learn from one another.
The gathering was co-organized by Global Voices through its Rising Voices initiative, as well as the research group Muysccubun and the Caro and Cuervo Institute, which served as the event's hospitable hosts.
Wikimedia Colombia, Mozilla Colombia, and Ubuntu Colombia were also on hand as local partners, leading workshops and providing mentoring to the participants wishing to start new projects or improve on existing initiatives.
The gathering was also made possible in part through the support of Hivos.
Participants
In mid-May, we published an open call for participation seeking interested individuals already working to revitalize their native languages through Internet-based tools.
Participants were selected with geographic and linguistic diversity in mind, as well their commitment to sharing what they would learn with their own communities.
Ever Kuiru (right) shows Deiver Edisson Canticus and Yeraldin Domico the website to his digital project.
Applications arrived from throughout the country showing an impressive background in community-based projects, including online radio broadcasting, blogging, social media promotion, online dictionaries, and online children's games.
Following a review, the organizing team selected 15 people to take part.
A complete list of participants and their respective communities and languages can be found here.
Plenary sessions, workshops, and public events
Selected participants were invited to lead workshops or discussions, with the idea that each session be more conversation-like in nature.
During the plenary sessions, facilitators introduced a topic including some broad general questions for the group to spark a conversation among everyone based on their local perspectives and personal experiences.
These sessions included discussion of technical hurdles when using native languages on the web, such as lack of keyboards to type necessary characters.
The ongoing lack of connectivity in many communities is also a major obstacle for communities to become more active in this work.
Another challenge discussed was the lack of consensus on writing methods within participants' communities and methods of building a uniform alphabet.
Participants also shared their views on whether to borrow words from Spanish when their language lacks a word for technology-related terminology.
Some were adamant that neologisms should be created to accommodate these needs demonstrating that the language can be fully functional on its own.
Another discussion centered on community rights to the content that is uploaded to the Web — whether digital activists need to ask permission from elders or leaders and in what circumstances, and how open licenses might figure into the equation.
The final discussion focused on ways to build alliances among different stakeholders that would ensure more successful language revitalization projects.
Many participants requested a greater presence from governmental authorities at the workshop, so they could directly advocate their communities' language preservation and revitalization needs.
Based off feedback collected after the Mexico workshop, participants had additional time allotted to formally present their digital project to the entire group.
Jhon Alexander Delgado shares his digital project with the group.
Hands-on workshops led by participants and local partners were another major component of the gathering.
Workshops included recording and editing with the Audacity software; how to start a free software localization project; creating memes using the Webmaker tool; how to edit a Wikipedia article; and how to maximize Twitter to create conversations around a specific hashtag.
The hashtag used for the event was #ActivismoLenguasCO.
Due to high demand, a roundtable discussion called "Internet in My Language — Experiences of Colombian Indigenous Language Digital Activists" took place the following Saturday morning.
Free and open to the public, the event was an opportunity for workshop participants to interact with the general public to help raise awareness about the topic.
Building upon the network
The two days were packed with a wealth of information and skill-building.
During the final wrap-up session, many recommended that future sessions be longer for more in-depth engagement with digital tools and topics.
According to participants, two days were not nearly enough time to reflect on the many challenges facing indigenous language digital activists in Colombia.
In addition, the wide variety of digital tools was at times overwhelming, so additional time with fewer tools was also suggested.
Group discussions during the workshop.
Most importantly, participants reiterated their own personal commitment to their projects.
They also expressed their desire to replicate the workshop model on a local level and virtually connect with other communities across the region, such as those that took part in the Mexico gathering.
Earlier this year, Rising Voices launched ActivismoLenguas.org, a portal to document and feature indigenous language digital activism projects across Latin America.
The site hosts project profiles, video interviews with the participants from Mexico, and video interviews with the Colombia participants will be shared there soon — all made possible through a collaboration with linguistics students at the Colombian National University.
This network, which started in Oaxaca, has already added new members from the Colombia workshop.
These gatherings demonstrate that innovative work is taking place on a grassroots level, but there is still need for technical, linguistic, and community support.
The challenge remains finding meaningful ways to connect these young indigenous language digital activists.
Building a network with them is a step in the right direction.
Global Voices hopes to continue to replicate this model in other countries in the region by facilitating partnerships with local organizations that share this common mission furthering the impact of the work of these young digital activists.
Shia Mosque Attacked by ISIS in Kuwait, Leaving at Least 24 People Dead · Global Voices
Bloodstained Shia cleric survives the suicide attack on the mosque in #Kuwait, tweets @Hayder_alKhoei
At least 24 people were killed and scores others were injured when an ISIS suicide bomber blew himself up in Al Sadeq Mosque in Kuwait today.
On social media, ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack on the Shia mosque, the fourth such attack on Shia mosques in Gulf countries in recent months.
Last month, the ISIS claimed responsibility for two similar attacks on Shia mosques in neighbouring Saudi Arabia, the heartland of Wahabbism, a fundamentalist interpretation of Islam, which claims to be the "official form of Sunni Islam."
On May 22, a suicide bomber killed 23 people and left 102 people injured when he blew himself up in the Imam Ali Mosque in Al Qadih, in Qatif, in the Eastern province of Saudi Arabia.
The following Friday, on May 31, three people were killed in a suicide bombing, which the ISIS Saudi branch Walayat Najd claimed responsibility for, and some 10 people were injured when a suicide bomber blew himself up outside a Shia mosque in nearby Dammam.
And in November, last year, eight people were killed in Al Ahsa, also in the Eastern province, when gunmen attacked a Shia community centre, where a religious ceremony was taking place. Check out our coverage on Global Voices Checkdesk: Suicide Bomb Attack at a Mosque in Kuwait
And now Kuwait is at the receiving end of the terror unleashed against adherents of the Shia faith by the ISIS, an Al Qaeda off-shoot which is now in control of half of Syria and huge territories in Iraq.
The news quickly spread on social media, showing graphic images of the victims and the damage in the mosque.
This video, which shows the aftermath of the attack, is being widely shared on social media:
Quick - #IS’ "Wilayat Najd” has issued a formal claim of responsibility for #Kuwait mosque attack: pic.twitter.com/2mHctzwCGN — Charles Lister (@Charles_Lister) June 26, 2015
And on social media, netizens expressed their shock at the attack, particularly that it happened in Ramadan, the holy month of fasting in Islam.
From Bahrain, Nasra Buashwan tweets:
I see some of you surprised.
If you spend years filling up people's minds with ideology which says the Shia are apostates and infidels, it will only be a matter of time before someone gets encouraged to blow himself up to kill the infidels
Iraqi journalist Mina Al Oraibi explains:
Targeting of Shia mosques in the Gulf is an attempt to ignite hatred..preachers inciting sectarianism as culpable as bombers — Mina Al-Oraibi (@AlOraibi) June 26, 2015
And Bahraini human rights activist Maryam Al Khawajah adds:
Gulf monarchies flock to send condolences while continuing to allow, sometimes encubating, the #sectarianism that results in these attacks — Maryam Alkhawaja (@MARYAMALKHAWAJA) June 26, 2015
Kuwait is surprisingly implicated in openly and actively funding the ISIS.
US Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence David Cohen recently pointed fingers at Kuwait for bankrolling some of ISIS activities:
a number of fundraisers operating in more permissive jurisdictions – particularly in Kuwait and Qatar – are soliciting donations to fund extremist insurgents, not to meet legitimate humanitarian needs.
The recipients of these funds are often terrorist groups, including al-Qa’ida’s Syrian affiliate, al-Nusrah Front, and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), the group formerly known as al-Qa’ida in Iraq (AQI).
Cohen continues:
Our ally Kuwait has become the epicenter of fundraising for terrorist groups in Syria.
A number of Kuwaiti fundraisers exploit the charitable impulses of unwitting donors by soliciting humanitarian donations from both inside and outside the country, cloaking their efforts in humanitarian garb, but diverting those funds to extremist groups in Syria.
Meanwhile, donors who already harbor sympathies for Syrian extremists have found in Kuwait fundraisers who openly advertise their ability to move funds to fighters in Syria.
Further Reading:
Monkey Cage: Sectarianism and authoritarianism in Kuwait The Washington Post: Kuwait, ally on Syria, is also the leading funder of extremist rebels Wall Street Journal: U.S. Calls Qatar, Kuwait Lax Over Terror Financing
Before and After the Bomb: an Interactive Tour of Nagasaki · Global Voices
Atomic Bomb Epicenter in 2015 - Urakami, Nagasaki.
Photo by Nevin Thompson.
The Nagasaki Archive has used Google Earth to create an interactive map of Nagasaki before and after an atomic bomb was dropped on the southwestern Japanese city on August 9, 1945.
The web tool essentially collects and curates information from around the web, matching survivor stories on YouTube, for example, with the precise location where these individuals were in Nagasaki when the bomb detonated.
The Google Earth plugin for Windows or Mac OSX 10.6+ is required to run the Nagasaki Archive.
The site also features similar web tools that explore the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, as well as the bloody Battle of Okinawa earlier in 1945 that saw up to 150,000 civilians killed.
Conspiracy Theories Abound in Aftermath of Trinidad Jailbreak · Global Voices
"Belmont rooftops"; image by (ha)SanMan_ish, used under a CC BY-NC 2.0 license.
Belmont is the Port of Spain suburb to which one of the escaped prisoners was reportedly trying to flee. Update: About 24 hours after the publishing of this post, one of the two men who were still at large, Hassan Atwell, was shot dead, though the police claim not by them.
It is a calm day in Trinidad and Tobago.
There are no blaring police sirens, no rumbling of helicopter rotors—a stark contrast to the confusion and panic yesterday caused by the escape of three "high-risk" prisoners from the Royal Gaol in Port of Spain.
In the aftermath, escapee Allan "Scanny" Martin and one police officer lay dead; the two other escaped prisoners, Hassan Atwell and Christopher Selby, remain at large.
One newspaper report which is being heavily shared on social media details how Selby commandeered a taxi to flee the scene, saying to its occupants, "“Excuse me but we just trying to fight the system.”
In a satirical post on the jailbreak, Wired868 quipped:
Well, that was bacchanal.
Trinidad and Tobago was so hot yesterday even Jack Warner considered asking the US Attorney General for a plane ticket.
The post went on to poke fun at the fact that Atwell appeared to have an active Facebook account while in prison:
At around noon yesterday, Port of Spain inmate Hassan Atwell and two fellow prisoners Allan 'Scanny' Martin and Christopher 'Monster' Selby made a daring jailbreak.
But first, they had to wait for the 41-year-old Atwell to update his Facebook page with the usual rant about his unwillingness to bend to the oppressive nature of incarceration and to share a 'Ent!
Breaking News' video.
On Facebook, Darren Trinity Cheewah posted cartoon commentary on Atwell's apparent ability to gain internet access while in prison:
Artwork by Darren Trinity Cheewah; used with permission.
Artwork by Darren Trinity Cheewah; used with permission.
As of the time of writing, Atwell's Facebook page is no longer visible to the public.
In the absence of an official version of events from either the police or the Ministry of National Security, netizens have begun cooking up conspiracy theories regarding links between the jailbreak and the Jamaat al Muslimeen.
The Jamaat is the organisation behind the attempted coup d'état in 1990, and its leader, Yasin Abu Bakr, was detained earlier this week for questioning, along with eight other Jamaat members.
Among the most talked about news items this morning was that one of the eight detainees, Hamid Ali, has been charged for the murder of Dana Seetahal, the Senior Counsel who was gunned down at point blank range on May 4 last year.
Hamid Ali is the brother of Rajaee Ali, who is currently incarcerated on charges of conspiracy to murder.
The latter had been involved in the controversial Lifesport programme, which has been plagued with corruption allegations.
Wired868's Mr. Live Wire tried to connected the dots by explaining:
Ali (R) is the son of Hassan Ali who is the Imam for the Jamaat-al-Muslimeen’s Carapo mosque and he leads prayers there himself as well.
It meant another round of questions to Imam Yasin Abu Bakr and his son Fuad Abu Bakr, the political leader of the NNV party, on whether their religious sect was housing and benefitting from crime.
Of course, Government interests seem to run alarmingly close to several criminal cases at the moment, not least the Seetahal murder, which, according to the police, might have been organised by persons who were on the LifeSport payroll at the time.
In a brilliant parallel, the post basically asked why what was good for Peter was not good for Paul:
Four years ago, attorney David West, who is now the PCA chairman, found it “passing strange” that then AG Anand Ramlogan did not appeal a ruling against extradition for UNC financiers Ish Galbaransingh and Steve Ferguson since Atwell was in a similar situation.
'It is passing strange that the State loses one application before a single High Court judge in a complex and highly politically charged case and deems it not fit to appeal,' said West.
'An appeal is necessary to clarify this ‘grey’ area in the law…Two other accused persons, Hassan Atwell and Gary Govindass are also in this same predicament by having a local charge existing whilst extradition proceedings are ongoing.'
Earlier this week, Works Minister and Tabaquite MP Suruj Rambachan unveiled a $14 million State project that was completed by Galbaransingh’s Aztec Asphalt Pavers company.
Food Production Minister Devant Maharaj, whose ministry oversaw the tendering process, sang from the same hymn sheet.
'Why should we distance ourselves?
Is it that he is not allowed to do business in Trinidad?' asked Maharaj, knowing full well that Trinidad is the perfect place for men like Galbaransigh to do business.
On Friday, Atwell decided that he deserved to be free to do business too.
So, he updated his Facebook page and then blasted his way out of jail, leaving a dead officer in his wake.
This place gone though, oui.
The Trinidad and Tobago Police Service has since announced that it will hold a press conference on the Dana Seetahal investigation at 2:30 p.m. today.
This is How Michael Jackson Sounds in Quechua · Global Voices
Renata Flores Rivera, a 14 year-old Peruvian, has become a social media sensation for her covers of well-known songs in the Quechua language.
The video of her version of "The Way You Make Me Feel", by the late Michael Jackson, was filmed at the Inca ruins of Vilcashuamán in Ayacucho, Peru and has been viewed more than half a million times on YouTube.
With seven million speakers, Quechua is the second-most spoken indigenous language in South America (after the Guarani).
In Peru it is considered an official language along with Spanish even though only about 19% of the population speaks Quechua.
Renata's mother, Patricia Rivera, works for the Asociación Cultural Surca (Surca Cultural Association), a program that aims to teach adolescents from Ayacucho about drug prevention and the Andean region's ancestral language. Renata was part of their initiative. Thanks to her mother, "the youth also speak Quechua."
The association was founded 11 years ago with the goal of achieving a positive attitude change in children and adolescents through art.
According to the newspaper El Comercio, their intention is to preserve Quechua as an ancestral language.
Ana Saroly affirms, in her article "Puede el quechua sobrevivir" (Can the Quechua Language Survive), that the Quechua language became the unifying language of the Inca empire 600 years ago.
Today the language runs the risk of decreasing in importance, so there is a need for younger generations to learn it and to feel proud of the language. Comments on the singer's Facebook page have been mostly positive.
Thanks Peru for your greatness." Another Quechua-language version of a classic rock song by Renata has been shared on Twitter:
Summer is the Season for Fireworks in Japan · Global Voices
花火 (Fireworks) from 2013 Kobe "floating fireworks festival."
Photo courtesy Flickr user Xiaojun Deng.
Photo licensed under CC BY 2.0.
The hot months of July and August mean summer holidays for students, crowded trips back to the ancestral home for families and plenty of festivals all over Japan.
Fireworks are something everyone looks forward to in the summer months.
Fireworks displays are often massive events all over Japan, and often last for at least an hour.
Fireworks festivals also provide an opportunity for highly-skilled artisans to compete and see which team can create the most elaborate display. 福井花火。 A photo posted by Fujio Kojima (@fujiwo) on Jul 31, 2015 at 7:08pm PDT
The family went to see the fireworks display.
(August 1st, 2015)
There has been surprisingly little research on the history of fireworks in Japan.
The practice is said to date back to the 16th century, and the introduction of firearms to Japan by Europeans.
Fireworks at Ryogoku Bridge, Sumida River in Edo - Hiroshige.
Image source: Wikimedia Commons.
Some researchers suggest that the modern practice of holding massive fireworks displays in Japan dates back to a memorial service in the 17th century in Edo (now called Tokyo), to pay tribute to victims of famine and a cholera outbreak.
Indeed, while the summer months in Japan are a time to have fun at festivals and at the beach, fireworks festivals in Japan are typically held during or quite close to O-Bon, a time when many Japanese families remember the dead in mid-August.
Sometimes fireworks displays are included as part of O-Bon ceremonies.
In this video, as part of an O-Bon ceremony in mid-August, participants are preparing for toro-nagashi (灯籠流し), where paper lanterns are released down a flowing river.
The laterns are said to guide the spirits of the dead back to the nether world.
Participants usually return to their family's ancestral when taking part in the ceremony.
However, fireworks festivals are held in Japan throughout July and August, and are not always tied to the August O-Bon holiday.
Search Coordinator for Ayotzinapa Students Assasinated · Global Voices Miguel Ángel Jiménez Blanco, coordinator of the search for the 43 Ayotzinapa teachers' college students, was assasinated in Mexico.
Singing Lullabies to Preserve the Butchulla Language · Global Voices
Fraser Island by EVC2008.
Used under a CC BY-NC-ND 2.0 license.
Evidence discovered on Fraser Island located in Queensland, Australia, suggests there may have been Aboriginal inhabitants as far back as 5,000 years ago.
The traditional owners of this land, the Butchulla people, called the island with its incredible natural surroundings K'gari meaning "paradise."
However, the Butchulla people faced hardships after the arrival of colonizers, who eventually displaced them from their land.
Fraser Island, QueenslandThe Butchulla language also suffered during this time, almost leading to its extinction in the 20th century due to governmental policies and missionary groups that prohibited it.
Thanks to present-day revitalization efforts by the Butchulla Language Program, the language is now returning.
The program has produced new resources such as dictionaries music CDs, and organized activities, such as language courses at local libraries, all of which is helping to encourage younger generations to take an interest in it.
Digital media and the Internet are also playing a role in these revitalization efforts.
As part of the ABC Open project "Mother Tongue" in which local communities partner with video producers from the Australia Broadcasting Corporation to create participatory videos focusing on Aboriginal language revitalization.
One such video collaboration took place between Joyce Bonner, a community linguist with the Korrawinga Aboriginal Corporation in Hervey Bay area, and ABC Open producer Brad Marsellos.
Together they created this video sharing a traditional Butchulla lullaby sung by Bonner's own mother.
Two little eyes to look up to God
Two little ears to hear his word
One little tongue to speak the truth
Sleep little baby sleep
The team also collaborated to produce another video teaching the Butchulla words for body parts:
These videos are one part of the strategy to revitalize the Butchulla language.
Read an interview with Bonner here about the origins and the recipe for success of the Butchulla Language Program.
From Village Girl to World Ultramarathon Champion: The Inspiring Story of Nepal's Mira Rai · Global Voices
Mira Rai, trail runner from Nepal.
Image by Flickr user rpb1001.
Trail running, one of the difficult and enduring sports, is not everyone’s cup of tea.
However, it comes natural to Nepal’s Mira Rai.
Recently, she won the 80-kilometre Mont-Blanc race, recognised as one of the most technical and difficult races in France, completing the distance in 12 hours and 32 minutes.
Former Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai congratulated Mira on Twitter:
Congratulations Mira Rai on winning international marathon.
Disqualified in the army integration, the former…
Having joined the Maoist rebel army as a teenager, she was disqualified during the army integration process.
Introduced to trail running just a year and few months ago, she is poised to become one of the finest ever athletes in trail running.
Her sports journey started with the Himalayan Outdoor Festival 50-kilometre race in Kathmandu in March 2014.
She won without much preparation and went on to win the Mustang Trail Race the following April.
Outside Nepal, she began her winning spree with Sellaronda Trail Race (57 kilometres) and Trail Degli Eroi (83 kilometres) in Italy in September 2014.
In October, she won the 50-kilometre Ultra Marathon Mountain Race in Hong Kong.
Since then she has never looked back.
Lloyd Belcher, a photographer and filmmaker based in Hong Kong, tweeted:
Mira Rai @TrailRunNepal faces the waiting cameras after winning the @Skyrunning_com HK 50k race ©lloydbelchervisuals pic.twitter.com/qGYQ6hlY7a — Lloyd Belcher (@lbelchervisuals) February 9, 2015
Mira comes from a small village in Bhojpur district of eastern Nepal.
She credits her success to the hardships through which she went as a child.
In one of the interviews, she says:
As a young girl I was not very interested in doing household chores, which is why my mother gave me the physical tasks like bringing water from the river, which is two hours down and three hours back home.
I also used to carry a bag of rice to the market to sell and bring money home.
I grew up running.
She trains hard and that keeps her fit and strong.
Her daily routine comprises waking up early, running 10-12 kilometres in the morning and 10-12 kilometres in the evening.
She also does rock climbing and cycling.
Mira, now an established name in trail running, is an inspiration to aspiring ultra-marathoners.
And not to forget, the millions of boys and girls back in Nepal for whom climbing up and down the treacherous pathways in the hills carrying loads on their backs is natural.
She has a precious piece of advice for them:
The 'Escopetarra': A Killer Instrument · Global Voices
If you believe that nothing good can come from a rifle, then you have to get to know the "escopetarra"—a hybrid that transforms two "lethal" weapons (an AK-47 and a guitar) into an instrument of peace. "Escopetarra" is a Spanish blend that combines the words "escopeta" (shotgun) and "guitarra" (guitar).
In his Spanish-language podcast, Colombian musician César López talks about how he created the instrument, tracing it from the moment of its conception to all of the technical issues he faced creating it, as well as its characteristic sound.
There are more AK-47s in the world than any other gun, thanks to how unusually cheap the weapon is to make.
It is estimated that there are 35-to-50 million AK-47s in existence, not counting those that are manufactured illegally each year. "First of all, the AK-47 has caused the most deaths by any weapon on the planet.
On the Seventieth Anniversary of the Bombing, Japan Remembers Nagasaki · Global Voices
Nagasaki National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims.
Central pillar contains names of the 168, 767 victims of the Nagasaki bombing who have died so far since the war.
On August 9, Japan marked the seventieth anniversary of the nuclear bombing of Nagasaki.
Although the 1945 destruction of Nagasaki has been traditionally observed each year, the 2015 commemoration was held as the remaining ageing hibakusha survivors who remember the day continue to die, and with them the memory of the horror of Japan's Pacific War.
The seventieth anniversary of the bombing of both Hiroshima and Nagasaki comes at a time of growing unease in Japan as the country's governing coalition is busy "reinterpreting" Japan's "Peace Constitution" to allow the country to legally go to war.
“Hiroshima rages, Nagasaki prays”
During the month of August, Japan remembers the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki on August 6 and August 9, and the end of a long and ferociously bloody "Pacific War" on August 15.
Traditionally, the atomic bombing of Hiroshima has overshadowed the bombing of Nagasaki that occurred just a few days later.
Some of the reasons are logistical: compared to Hiroshima, which has its own stop on Japan's high-speed rail line, Nagasaki, located in the far west of Japan on the island of Kyushu, is isolated and hard to reach.
Nagasaki also has very few reminders of the bombing.
While Hiroshima's distinctive Genbaku Dome has become both a UNESCO World Heritage Site and a an iconic symbol of the horrors of nuclear war, Nagasaki has been rebuilt and most of the buildings and structures affected by the blast have vanished into history.
In Nagasaki, the bomb exploded directly above Urakami Cathedral, one of the largest Christian churches in Asia at the time.
It represented Nagasaki's nearly 400-year connection to Christianity in 1945 (the original Urakami Cathedral itself dates back to 1895).
Urakami Tenshudo (Catholic Church) Jan.7, 1946.
Photo by AIHARA,Hidetsugu. (1909-).
Image is public domain.
Unlike the blasted remains of the Hiroshima Trade Hall (now known as the Genbaku Dome), which remain as they were on August 6, 1945, what little of Urakami Cathedral that survived the 1945 Nagasaki bombing was taken away.
All that remains of Urakami Cathedral are a few red brick columns, preserved at the hypocenter of the bomb.
Remains of Urakami Cathedral, Nagasaki (hypocenter of explosion).
Writing in the Japan Times, Tomoko Otake notes that remembering the victims of the bombing of Nagasaki is complicated by the location of the hypocenter itself.
While the bomber crew was intent of targeting the rail depot and busy shipyards located in the heart of Nagasaki proper, they mistakenly bombed the suburb of Urakami to the north of the city.
In 1945 Urakami was not yet considered part of Nagasaki, and, Otake writes, was home to both the Kakure Kirisitan religious minority and Japan's "untouchable" dowa social caste.
For her Japan Times piece, Otake interviews Nagasaki historian Shigeyuki Anan (阿南重幸) of the Nagasaki Human Rights Center:
Anan, who has viewed the atomic bombing of Nagasaki as a lens through which to look at wider issues of human rights and discrimination against religious and ethnic minorities, says some Nagasaki residents — who were faithful to the local Suwa Shrine — took the bombing of Urakami as a sign that non-Shinto believers were “punished.”
“They said the bomb fell in Urakami, not Nagasaki,” Anan said.
Such a sentiment among locals polarized Nagasaki, keeping them from uniting in an appeal for peace, experts say.
Nagasaki Bomb Hypocenter in March, 2015 - Urakami, Nagasaki.
Ask yourself “What can I do for the sake of peace?”
As in Hiroshima, the Nagasaki's memorial ceremony each year is led by the mayor of the city.
Several thousand people gather in a large "peace park" located on a hill overlooking the epicenter of the bombing in the suburb of Urakami, to the north of Nagasaki's downtown core.
This is the first time I have attended
Hibakusha survivors are asked to speak, and politicians, including the Prime Minister of Japan, lay wreathes and make their own remarks on the bombing.
The ceremony is typically broadcast live on television.
To the young generation, I ask that you do not push wartime experiences aside saying that they are stories of the past.
Understand that the wartime generation tell you their stories because what they speak of could, in the future, happen to you as well.
Therefore, please inherit their wish for peace.
Please imagine what you would do in such circumstances, and ask yourself “What can I do for the sake of peace?”
You, the young generation, have the power to transcend national borders and create new relationships.
Is Japan Really Committed to Abolishing Nuclear Weapons?
A few days before the Nagasaki memorial ceremony on August 9, 2015, Prime Minister Shinzo raised eyebrows when he neglected to mention or make reference to Japan's "3 non-nuclear principles" (非核三原則 Hikaku San Gensoku) during his address at the Hiroshima memorial ceremony.
As Prime Minister Abe and his government have worked hard to set up a legal framework that will permit Japan to go war, discarding seventy years of post-war pacifism, there are also worries that Japan is in fact a covert nuclear-threshold state.
Abe's failure to recognize Japan's 3 non-nuclear principles during his Hiroshima address, critics say, is yet another example of his government's "incremental" approach to changing Japanese society, in this case carefully preparing the way for Japan to emerge as a nuclear state.
As if in response to these fears, Abe dutifully reiterated Japan's commitment to the country's 3 non-nuclear principles when he addressed attendees at the Nagasaki ceremony on August 9th.
Remembering the Dead in August
Lanterns are released on the Urakami River with a prayer for peace.
Ceremonies commemorating the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, as well as the end of the war itself coincide with Japan's traditional O-Bon festival.
Observed in mid-August each year, O-Bon marks the time when ancestors return to visit the family home.
At the end of the festival, many families send off their visiting ancestors aboard floating paper lanterns released onto a river or into the ocean.
In Hiroshima and Nagasaki this practice has special poignancy as the lanterns are accompanied with prayers for peace and a hope that no one else will ever experience the horrors of nuclear war.
Australian Artist Jailed in UAE For Posting "Bad Words" on Facebook · Global Voices
Australian artist Jodi Magi was arrested and deported from the UAE for posting on Facebook a photograph of a car parked across two disabled parking spots. Australian artist Jodi Magi found herself in a UAE prison after she posted on Facebook a photo of a parked car blocking two disabled parking spaces outside her apartment block in Abu Dhabi.
Despite blacking out the car's license plate number, the 39-year-old artist was convicted of "writing bad words on social media about a person," jailed, and then deported, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.
Magi was arrested when she went to pay a fine and was just released after spending 53 hours in prison.
On her Facebook page, she describes her traumatic experience saying:
After 53 hours in custody, having been shackled at the ankles, strip-searched, blood tested, forced to sleep on a concrete floor without a mattress or pillow and having no access to toilet paper or eating utensils, I can happily say I AM SAFE & OUT OF JAIL AND ABU DHABI!
Obviously, I think a $3600 fine and deportation with a complimentary incarceration period was an extreme reaction to a jpg of a car when I did not swear or mention a single name and blocked the registration plate.
Magi shares what she saw in the Abu Dhabi prison for women:
Even though I am pretty traumatised by my own experience, what has affected me more are the many, many stories told to me by my fellow inmates at both the jails I 'visited'.
I will be forever heartbroken by the treatment of these inspiring and courageous women from the Philippines, India, Nigeria, Russia, Uganda, Bangladesh, Syria etc at the hands of the U.A.E. 'Justice System'.
If you think what happened to me was insane, spend a couple of days in an Abu Dhabi jail; I have nothing to complain about compared to the vast majority of women I met whose only crime was being poor, marrying the wrong guy, getting pregnant outside of marriage or/and being victims of rampant and systemic police corruption where 'evidence', 'ethics' and 'due process' are unheard of concepts.
Among numerous acts of kindness to me, these ladies welcomed me to The Big House with "We are your family now", gave me a spoon to eat with, found me a blanket and a book to read and even sent me on my way to freedom with snacks in case I got hungry at the airport.
She vows to help:
I will do what I can to contact some of their families and let them know how/where they are, but I still feel incredibly guilty leaving them in there when I am typing this from the luxury of an airport restaurant.
I know 1000% after hearing their stories that I would never have been released in such a speedy fashion without a) my Australian nationality, b) the media coverage (surreal), c) the belated efforts of the embassy and d) all of the support from my friends as well as people I have never even met.
On Twitter, Human Rights Watch (HRW) Middle East and North Africa executive director Sarah Leah Whitson quipped:
post evidence of law-breaking, face deportation in #UAE - #Australia woman arrested in Abu Dhabi to be deported soon http://t.co/yCHdMi7fZn — Sarah Leah Whitson (@sarahleah1) July 14, 2015
In 2012, the UAE enacted a new cyber crime law that has been condemned by human rights groups, among them Human Rights Watch, which described the decree as "a serious threat to the liberty of peaceful activists and ordinary citizens alike."
At the time the law was passed, HRW said in a statement:
The decree’s vaguely worded provisions provide a legal basis to prosecute and jail people who use information technology to, among other things, criticize senior officials, argue for political reform, or organize unlicensed demonstrations.
Although some provisions are aimed at preventing the proliferation of racist or sectarian views online, the principal effect of the law is severe restrictions on the rights to free expression and free association and assembly.
Article 29 provides the same penalties for anyone using information technology “with the intent of deriding or harming the reputation, stature, or status of the state, any of its institutions, its president or vice president, the rulers of the emirates, their crown princes or their deputies, the state flag, national safety, its motto, its national anthem, or its symbols.”
By enabling the authorities to imprison anyone who makes any critical comment about the country or its rulers, the new decree is at odds with international free speech standards.
It is not clear what was offensive in Magi's photograph, which aimed at highlighting the disregard of many to traffic rules and regulations.
Unintentionally Amusing Illustrations Found in Japanese Textbooks · Global Voices
All around the world, students have the ability to turn the textbook, the symbol of compulsory yet boring learning, into a thing of timeless amusement.
Japan is no exception.
This was in a maternity textbook.
So surreal!
On the Matome Naver website, users have taken to posting illustrations from various educational textbooks that range from unintentionally humorous to outright funny and surreal.
It’s clear they are meant to be taken seriously within the context of the textbook, but the Matome Naver community is delighting in demonstrating just how absurd textbook illustrations can be.
No sooner had I opened my textbook when I discovered whatever these eight guys are.
Some illustrations appear to intended to resemble world-famous celebrities:
If we're talking , I discovered this one during today's English lesson: Luciano Pavarotti.
It's even supposed illustrate what a singer is!
Others seem to bear an unintentional resemblance to popular anime and manga icons:
All I can think of when I look at this textbook illustration is Shingeki no Kyojin .
The textbook illustration thread is very popular on Matome Naver, with over 700,000 views so far and over 900 users marking it as a 'favorite.'
Matome Naver user amayasa, the creator of the thread, succinctly sums up the impact of these textbook illustrations:
Thanks to these illustrations, I'm unable to concentrate while studying, haha.
Japan is no stranger to the viral nature of textbook illustrations.
Earlier in June, publisher Sanseido KK recalled 10,000 grade one school textbooks after discovering the girl in the illustration possessed three arms (the third arm is resting on table, while the girl grips a basket in both hands).
The publisher issued a public apology after children discovered the error:
Textbook illustration blooper! 10,000 textbooks recalled!
Why does the publisher need to collect each and every one ?
Who knows?
Furthermore, video game news site Kotaku covered student attempts to make textbook illustrations more interesting via doodling last year.
Illustrations vary from homages to popular anime series to suggestive images not suitable for work or the classroom.
Found in a Japanese textbook.
Why an old man and a young man, I wonder...
Making the Culture and Language of Peru's Nomatsigenga People Accessible and Enduring · Global Voices
Member of the Nomatsigenga community.
Image provided by the project.
The Nomatsigenga, pronounced , are people that live in 33 native communities in the Pangoa Valley, at the center of the Peruvian Amazonia, whose language is endangered.
According to Alexandra Aikhenvald, a linguist specializing in Amazon languages, their language belongs to the Kampa ethnolinguistic branch, which in turn belongs to the Arawak family.
The Nomatsigenga's diverse base of traditional knowledge is also disappearing with time.
To prevent that, an Archive of the Nomatsigenga Language and Culture has been created, as explained on the website Nomatsigenga: the first digital archive was created jointly with the aim of recording and making the language and culture of our people visible and enduring.
After almost a year of research in the region and in-depth interviews with over 80 journalists, editors, and independent media owners, Human Rights Watch released a report in July 2015 stating that media freedom in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, and Serbia are under threat.
The report's findings include impunity and lack of action by authorities for threats, beatings, and even murders of journalists and media workers in these countries, citing that political interference and financial pressure through heavy fines and vague laws are often imposed on independent media in these countries.
In several cases journalists said they have continued to experience physical violence and abuse after their initial attack, again, often with impunity for their assailants.
Journalists reporting on war crimes or radical religious groups in BiH, Kosovo and Serbia said authorities downplayed the seriousness of online threats they had experienced.
Inefficiency and severe backlogs in the four justice systems impede timely adjudication of legal cases.
Cases tend to drag on for years, creating an environment that can be used to the advantage of those who seek to stifle critical reporting through criminal acts of intimidation.
Human Rights Watch's key recommendations to authorities and governments in the four countries in question following this report include public and unequivocal condemnation of all attacks against journalists and media outlets and assurance of swift and thorough investigations into all such incidents, as well as prompt and impartial investigations into all attacks and threats against journalists and media outlets, including cybercrimes.
The international human rights watch dog has also recommended that the European Union, to which all four of these countries are currently aspiring, the OSCE and the Council of Europe pay closer attention and take additional steps to urge relevant authorities in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, and Serbia to react appropriately to media threats and ensure a safe environment for journalists to work in.
Trinidad's Capital Sent Into a Tailspin as Three Inmates Shoot Their Way Out of Prison · Global Voices
Port of Spain, Trinidad's capital city.
Photo by Mariordo (Mario Roberto Duran Ortiz)CC BY-SA 3.0
The Friday afternoon bustle of downtown Port of Spain was today transformed into something much more befitting an action movie set, as three prisoners reportedly shot their way out of the Royal Jail, a facility located on Frederick Street near the heart of Trinidad's capital.
@tv6tnt Prisons officers on high alert outside POS jail. pic.twitter.com/5D3dwIThHT — Mark Bassant (@MarkBassant1) July 24, 2015
Reports are still murky, but the escapees, Allan "Scanny" Martin, Hassan Atwell and Christopher Selby, were reportedly able to flee the prison when the gates were opened to allow an official vehicle to enter.
A getaway car was either waiting or acquired and in the ensuing shootout between the prisoners and the protective services Martin was shot dead, and one police officer, Sherman Maynard, was shot and injured. Maynard subsequently died on the operating table at the nearby Port of Spain General Hospital.
Atwell and Selby are said to be still on the run.
Martin was one of ten suspects to stand trial for the murder of businesswoman Vindra Naipaul-Coolman.
He is also reported to be a member of the Jamaat al Muslimeen, the organisation behind the failed coup attempt in 1990.
The group's leader, Yasin Abu Bakr, was recently held for questioning with regard to the 2014 murder of Senior Counsel Dana Seetahal, who was working as a prosecutor in the Naipaul-Coolman case.
But police officials and Trinidad and Tobago's Minister of National Security have been careful to say that no connection has yet been established between the jailbreak and Bakr's detention:
Police: No confirmed link to Muslimeen despite report of shooters in Muslim garb — CCN TV6 (@tv6tnt) July 24, 2015
Atwell was due to be extradited to the United States on hostage-taking charges, and there has been speculation that the jailbreak could be connected to the pending extradition.
Minister of National Security Brigadier Carl Alfonso, has stated, however, that he has "no information on any planned extradition of Atwell".
Today, at approximately 10:30am Trinidad and Tobago time, Hassan Atwell had posted the following message publicly on his Facebook page, prompting speculation online as to how a prison inmate had access to Facebook in the first place:
A true believer would accept death any day over oppression.
And a true believer must do everything in his or her power to remove themselves from under oppression without fearing death.
For it is more pleasing to ALLAH for a believer to stand up and fight against oppression and die in the process than for a believer to sit down and just accept oppression because he or she is afraid of death.
DEATH IS ONLY AN INVITATION FROM ALLAH TO ME MEET HIM IN PERSON.
Heavy traffic in Woodbrook after today's shootup in PoS pic.twitter.com/ByNMkYaK4Y — CCN TV6 (@tv6tnt) July 24, 2015
On Facebook, Jason Blackknight Subero publicly posted a video of the shootout on the grounds of the hospital, where the escapees reportedly fled, saying, "Live shootout, five minutes response from police....
Greece Crisis Propelling Some Ethnic Greeks Back to Their Homeland on a Turkish Island · Global Voices
Featured image is found at Wikimedia Commons, by user Bilderbrei (CC Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported).
News portal Greek Reporter and Anastassios Adamopoulos recently republished a story that first appeared at Turkish Hurriet Daily News online, focusing on a trend that has seen many Greek families escape the worsening economic crisis in Greece by returning to their homeland on the Turkish island of Gökçeada in Çanakkale Province, known in Greek as Imbros.
In the report, local Mayor Ünal Çetin congratulates Greeks for helping to boost the island's local economy, with several repatriated families starting up small boutique hotels to make a living.
Meanwhile, Turkish and Greek social media users have been coming together under the hashtags #Imvros and #Gokceada to celebrate the island's beauty.
Many Greek families, mostly descendants of ethnic Greeks born and raised on the island from antiquity until the mid-point of the 20th century, still spend their summers in Imbros.
These families subsequently emigrated to Greece due to a Turkish state-sponsored campaign of discrimination.
The fact that they are moving back despite less-than-perfect relations between Ankara and Athens says much about the scale of the catastrophe that has befallen Greece, as well as the strength of their bond with the island.
Moreover, while bad economic news continues to seep out of the country they left behind, the theme of their return to Gökçeada is one of gradual regeneration and homecoming:
School reopened after 49 years.
Two students only #imvros #shcool #students
Japan's Cosplay Culture Helps a Global Community Experiment With Identity · Global Voices
Image couresty Pixabay user nile _BAR_ CC0 Public Domain
Over the past 30 years, cosplay (コスプレ) has grown from a small subculture to a worldwide cultural phenomenon.
While for some, cosplay has become a hobby that borders on an obsession, for others the practice of cosplay is a way to try on new identities.
The term cosplay was created by combing and shortening the words “costume play."
Japanese writer Takahashi Nobuyuki is typically credited with creating the word after being inspired by the individuals in full costume who he encountered during a visit to the Los Angeles-based World Science Fiction Convention in 1984.
Once he returned to Japan, Takahashi went on to encourage members of Japan's burgeoning otaku community (fans who are passionate about a particular hobby, usually related to anime and manga) to take up the practice.
Members answered the the call,and as a result, cosplay is now the most visual expression of expression of otaku culture, both within and outside of Japan.
There is even a website, Cure, which is devoted to Japan's cosplay community.
One of the charms of cosplay is that it’s a way for a common sensibility to be shared among friends or members of a particular group.
So it would be rather pointless for a person to do cosplay on his or her own.
That collaborative aspect of cosplay has created a “give-and-take” relationship where everyone involved takes photos and videos of each other.
And now through SNS (social network services) sites it’s possible for such interaction to take place across Japan, not just in the big cities.
Tatsumi, who appears on the right in the photo below, has made cosplay an integral part of his life:
…in Japan, where the otaku spirit runs deep, I get the sense that you can't be as casual about your fandom, so there's a sort of perfectionist streak that runs through the cosplay community there.
That means far less goofing off.
Indeed, some cosplayers can take their craft to what seem like extremes anywhere else: When Jotoro was cosplaying in Egypt, a random camel snuck in a furtive snuggle. For the Japanese cosplay community, the practice is as much about personal empowerment and fostering a supportive community as it is about doing the character justice.
#28DaysOfBlackCosplay
Who are we wearing to #AgeOfUltron next week??
I think I'm gonna be Cap <3 pic.twitter.com/wHjH9ckA47 — #JurassicChaka (@princessology) April 21, 2015
The grassroots movement was spearheaded by Chaka Cumberbatch, who cosplays under the name Princess Mentality.
Cumberbatch is passionate about her craft and encourages others to participate, especially upstart black cosplayers, even in the face of pushback for the sake of “accuracy.”
In an interview with Global Voices, Cumberbatch said:
When I was a much younger nerd, we didn't have websites like Black Girl Nerds and movements like Black Comics Month or #28DaysOfBlackCosplay — all we had was our fan art and our fanfics where we had to insert ourselves into the worlds we loved so much, just to feel connected.
I think it's critically important for cosplayers of color to show up, speak up and be heard — because if that representation isn't there already, we will have to make it for ourselves.
Cumberbatch explained that the act of embodying a character through cosplay is one that transcends ethnic and cultural borders.
“I don't feel it's necessary to be the same race or come from the same culture of a character in order to have a personal connection," she said.
"I don't feel any less of a connection to the character just because I'm not Japanese.”
As a result, Cumberbatch said she strives to embody characters she is completely connected to, even right down to the color of the nail polish.
“For me, I have to really care about the character," she said.
"If I don't have a personal connection to the character or the series, I find that I'm just really not motivated or interested in finishing the costume.”
For her efforts, Cumberbatch has connected with other cosplayers around the world who continue to cosplay characters outside their race in spite of vocal opposition: While it saddens me to know that the problems I've faced in America transcend beyond our borders, it's encouraging to hear that even in the face of that, the strength to rise above it is what brings so many of us together.
Although February is long gone, the #28DaysOfBlackCosplay movement continues, not only through the efforts Cumberbatch but also through the efforts other black cosplayers and cosplayers of color.
The frequently visited Tumblr website Cosplaying While Black features positive images of black cosplayers and cosplayers of colour, submitted by the users themselves.
Butterfly Samurai sums up her feelings in a post for the website “Nerdy but Flirty”:
This movement has further fostered a community within a larger cosplay community.
The amount of black cosplayers who actually started due to seeing other black cosplayers is unimaginable.
Therefore, 28 Days of Black Cosplay is also about shepherding those on the fringes into the fold and giving them the courage to cosplay themselves.
The German Voices on the Greek Crisis You Aren't Hearing · Global Voices
Photo by Flickr User Theophilos Papadepoulos under CC BY-NC-ND 2.0
From German traditional media it may seem seem that Germany is united in pushing for another round of hardline austerity and reform policies against its weaker Eurozone member Greece.
However, within alternative media and German Internet or social media communities, anti-austerity voices that align themselves with the Greek people are loud and clear.
Germany is one of Greece's largest creditors and as the Eurozone's biggest economy it holds considerable sway over Greece's bailout program.
Germany's government wants Greece to enforce more austerity and repay its loans, and has even suggested a temporary exit of Greece from the Eurozone if it fails to do so.
Also read: Forget a ‘Grexit’.
Twitter Users Want Germany's Finance Minister to Go Instead
Greece debt crisis
Despite two bailout packages in 2010 and 2011, the Greek economy never recovered from the European debt crisis of 2009.
The packages were bound by strict austerity measures from bailout creditors International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European Commission, and the European Central Bank — also known as the Troika.
On June 30, Greece became the first developed country to fail to make an IMF loan repayment, pushing the country into a crisis with its fellow Eurozone members.
As images of distraught Greeks lining up at ATM machines appeared on to newspapers around the world, the Greece government under Prime Minister Tsipras came out strongly in opposition to creditors and called for a reform of credit terms.
In a referendum that followed, Greek voters rejected further financial austerity measures.
But Eurozone members — led by Germany — aren't budging.
Germany's influence
On July 13, after 31 hours of discussions, Eurozone leaders and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras reached an agreement that would mean billions more in loans for cash-strapped Greece in exchange for implementing even more painful austerity.
Greece's parliament is expected to vote on the package later this week.
Blogger Ingo Stützle explains the extent of Germany's dominance in the Eurozone, the monetary union of 19 European Union members that use the Euro as their common currency:
Merkel showed back in June of 2010 just how far Germany will go in its arrogance, as she declared that fiscally irresponsible countries must be stripped of their right to vote…just a few months later, without even acting on this ridiculous view of national debt as a kind of human rights violation, CDU Party Chief Volker Kauder could claim with satisfaction: “Now all of a sudden German is spoken in Europe.
Not in the language, but in the acceptance of the instruments Angela Merkel has so long and successfully fought for.”
The economist Thomas Piketty, said in an interview with ZEIT newspaper that the German formula for success after the Second World War is based, among other things, on a crucial factor: debt reduction.
In 1953, almost 60 percent of Germany's debt was forgiven.
In the current Greek crisis, the prevalent argument is that reparation payments from World War II should not be conflated with the Greek debt situation.
Anti-austerity voices in Greece
A look at Germany's Internet community and social media shows arguments and perspectives that reveal a completely different German view towards the Greek crisis.
These views also show that many Germans want a balanced, factual, and less-ideological approach to Greece—one that also allows for criticism of austerity policies.
After the humid tension of the day, a cathartic ‪#Oxi and thunderstorms over Berlin: “Hurray, the world is ending!”
Whenever I tweet something nonconformist about Greece, some people stop following me.
Looks like criticism of austerity is the new feminism.
Expropriate Springer and write off Greek debt in the billions.
For some reason I’m in a revolutionary mood today.
Compare international and German mass media on Greece, as long as your blood pressure allows it, and the state of German media becomes clear.
Wolfgang Blau also writes in his Facebook post that more voices from Germany need to be heard in Greece and Europe to strengthen a civilized discourse in Europe.
He leaves readers with an artistic—not journalistic— video from Greece that should give many people, and in particular journalists in Europe, cause for reflection:
You know that this video could begin or end with an imposing shot of the Acropolis.
Or the Olympics.
Or the deep blue waters of the Aegean.
Or with people losing their jobs and homes.
Or others sleeping in tiny carton boxes.
Or others driving luxurious cars.
But this shall not happen.
Because this video wasn't made to impress nor to shock you.
Because these words are not a scream.
They're a whisper.
Also read: Journalist Asteris Masouras Hopes Solidarity Will Save Greece
How Germany's media is covering the crisis
The crisis in Greece has stirred criticism towards Germany's traditional media.
Many feel that ideology drowns out any objective facts or criticism of austerity policies in the German media’s coverage of the issue.
Wolfgang Blau of The Guardian expresses concern in this Facebook post about the anti-Greece campaign by the German tabloid newspaper Bild:
I would have never thought that a German news organization could be so degrading and reckless with regard to the suffering of another nation.
Heiner Flassbeck writes in his blog Hassbeck economics that he constantly receives complaints from his readers of "tendentious, ideological, and even demagogic articles."
This applies not only to tabloid newspapers, but also to high-quality regional media outlets.
According to Flassbeck, what’s lacking in German news coverage is the perspective of the German Internet community:
No one is talking about the fact that there is now quality information and analysis available on the Internet, with an objectivity and clarity that the traditional media never achieve.
Malaysia Blocks News Website and Suspends Two Local Papers for Reporting on Government Corruption · Global Voices
Media groups in Malaysia are calling the public to protect the right to free speech.
Image is part of the campaign to support the suspended newspapers
A news website was blocked and two local papers in Malaysia were suspended for three months after publishing investigative reports about a financial scandal involving the country’s prime minister.
Sarawak Report was blocked on July 19 based on an order issued by the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) for allegedly posting "unverified accusations" about the financial dealings of 1Malaysia Development Bhd (1MDB), a government-managed investment company.
A few days later, the Malaysian Home Ministry (Kementrian Dalam Negeri - KDN) suspended the license of The Edge Financial Daily and The Edge Weekly, also for publishing stories and releasing documents on 1MDB.
The 1MDB issue refers to the questionable financial transactions of the company, which allegedly cost taxpayers billions of dollars.
Early this month, the Wall Street Journal published a report suggesting that 700 million US dollars were transferred to the bank accounts of Prime Minister Najib Razak via the company.
The government is currently probing the 1MDB as Najib denies the allegation.
The MCMC said in a statement that Sarawak Report was blocked “based on complaints and information received from the public.”
…the MCMC will not hesitate to take action against any party who falsely or inaccurately reports anything, or spreads misinformation which has not been verified.
But Sarawak Report has maintained that it did not do anything criminal and it urged the government to present evidence about 1MDB rather than censor news websites:
Sarawak Report will not be impeded in any way by this action in bringing out future information as and when its investigations deliver further evidence.
This latest blow to media freedom only brings further discredit upon the present administration, who have proven unable to counter the evidence we have presented in any other way.
The blocking of Sarawak Report inspired many Malaysians to visit and ‘like’ its Facebook page. As of this writing, Sarawak Report now has 129,000 Facebook 'likes'.
Meanwhile, the Home Ministry said it suspended two papers of The Edge because their 1MDB reports were allegedly "prejudicial or likely to be prejudicial to public order, security or likely to alarm public opinion or is likely to be prejudicial to public and national interest".
The Edge decided to release more documents about 1MDB and hinted that it may be their last story on the issue because of the suspension order:
We have in this report, which is possibly the last on this subject, laid out all the key facts about what happened during the three-year business ties between 1MDB and PetroSaudi International
Our report is based on evidence corroborated by documents that include bank transfers and statements.
How can the work that we have done be deemed as a political conspiracy?
The Edge is set to file a judicial review in response to the suspension order.
The blocking of Sarawak Report and the suspension of two papers of The Edge were viewed by many as an attack on Malaysia’s media sector.
The Centre for Independent Journalism said the government should probe allegations of corruption instead of restricting free speech:
CIJ is also deeply concerned that there is a further clamp down on the discussion around a critical public interest issue which negates the public's ability to find out information, debate and form important opinions.
CIJ renews its calls for a focus on investigating the actual issues at hand, and rejects further regulation and censorship on the internet as a way to manage the issue.
Malaysiakini, an alternative news website, published an editorial denouncing the action of the government, which it says has already shed its credibility:
For a leadership that has nothing to hide, silencing the media does nothing for its credibility.
Instead, this suspension sends an indelible message to Malaysians that the government has indeed something big to hide.
The Foreign Correspondents Club of Malaysia noted that none of the 1MDB coverage government agencies are questioning has been challenged in court for being unfair or false:
To begin with, the very idea that the government can suspend or revoke printing licenses at a moment's notice needs to be done away with if the government is truly committed to press freedom.
But to suspend a newspaper over reports that no one has been able to prove were false, is plainly contrary to the notion of natural justice.
Human rights group Suaram urged the government to uphold truth and transparency.
The Lawyers for Liberty group said the suspension of Sarawak Report has a chilling effect on the press:
The authorities must be reminded that journalism is not a crime.
Press freedom is an indispensable component of any modern and democratic society as it functions as a form of check and balance against government excesses.
Such authoritarian behaviour unfortunately sends a chilling message to the press to self-censor on issues such as 1MDB or else they may invite retaliation.
It added that media reports like those published by The Edge should be encouraged to promote good governance:
The Edge’s coverage of the 1MDB scandal was Malaysia’s press’ finest hour.
It was journalism at its best as they fearlessly investigated and reported on the massive and complex 1MDB scandal despite the overwhelming odds and threats against them.
The Edge should be lauded for their outstanding journalism instead of being persecuted.
Local media groups are planning to hold a public rally on August 8 to condemn the government’s actions against critical media groups.
Their five-group coalition is asking the public to protect free speech in the country by supporting the campaign for a strong and independent media.
Protests as Malaysia Suspends Two Newspapers Following a Corruption Expose · Global Voices
Photo from the Facebook page of Malaysians stand in solidarity with The Edge
More than 300 journalists, activists, lawyers, and concerned citizens gathered in Kuala Lumpur's Central Market on August 8 to protest the suspension of two newspapers and the blocking of a news website by the Malaysian government.
The event, which is part of the #AtTheEdge campaign, deplored the action of the government as blatant media censorship.
Last July 19, the Sarawak Report whistleblower website was blocked in Malaysia for posting ‘unverified information’ about the corruption scandal involving 1MDB, a state-managed investment company.
A few days later, two newspapers of The Edge were suspended for three months for allegedly releasing fabricated documents related to 1MDB.
The issue also implicates Prime Minister Najib Razak after the Wall Street Journal published a report alleging that he got 700 million US dollars in bank transfers through the 1MDB.
Below are some of the placards and banners used in the rally:
From the Facebook page of Malaysians stand in solidarity with The Edge
Here are some photos on Twitter using the hashtag #AtTheEdge:
Proudly stood in protest with fellow Msians & journos at the #AtTheEdge rally today. #FreeMedia #FreedomofExpression pic.twitter.com/Vuqpcf3Q46 — CIJ Malaysia (@CIJ_Malaysia) August 8, 2015
Feminists support freedom of expression & opinion #AtTheEdge @ivyjosiah pic.twitter.com/uItitSFsHk — HRC Malaysian Bar (@hrc_bar) August 8, 2015
"Asking questions about #1MDB is not a crime" #AtTheEdge pic.twitter.com/FxwpqJEiCI — Sumisha Naidu (@sumishanaidu) August 8, 2015
Journalism is not a crime. #AtTheEdge pic.twitter.com/iM2BTof63u — Khairil Yusof (@kaerumy) August 8, 2015
Curbing the media and curbing access to media is a blatant act of power to limit us, human beings, to our right to source information and news.
It is also a blatant act to curb freedom of speech as well as limiting journalism.
All hope is not lost as I witness beforehand media players standing up for their right to report and deliver information to us the people ‪#‎atTheEdge‬ event yesterday.
And that is a wonderful sight to see.
Good turnout for #808 #AtTheEdge Free the media from political control! pic.twitter.com/k9E0jGC9uB — Yin Shao Loong (@yinshaoloong) August 8, 2015
.@Ambiga_S: we must never 4get abuses of power 2day.
U can suspend edge, sr, but u can't suspend truth! #ATTHEEDGE pic.twitter.com/kyeT2HLaeN — #AtTheEdge, Malaysia (@AtTheEdgeMsia) August 8, 2015
A bigger rally is being arranged on August 29.
This time the issue is no longer limited to media freedom.
Dubbed Bersih 4, the rally demands the resignation of the prime minister.
Hong Kong Stages 'Breast Walk' to Protest Police and Judicial Absurdity · Global Voices
An online poster against the police claim of "assault by a woman protester's breast".
From Facebook user orin.
Outraged by the three-and-a-half month jail sentence given to a woman convicted of assaulting the police with her breasts, more than a dozen organisations have mobilized a "breast walk" that will take place in Hong Kong on August 2.
Ng Lai-ying, 30, was convicted of assaulting police during an anti-parallel trader protest in March 2015 on the grounds that she had used her breast to "attack" the police officer.
The incident occurred when the police officer grasped Ng's bag during the protest and she instinctively shouted "indecent assault", as the police officer's arm brushed her breast.
The charge filed against Ng Lai-ying inverted the accusation, depicting Ng as the aggressive party.
Several other protestors were also convicted of assaulting police on the same occasion.
Despite the fact the police officer did not suffer any injuries from the "breast assault" — while Ng's face was covered with blood when she was arrested — the magistrate indicated that Ng had precipitated chaos and violence against police by shouting "indecent assault" and sentenced her to three-and-a-half months in prison on July 30.
Ng is currently out on bail pending appeal.
In response to the ridiculous ruling, a dozen civic groups created the "breast walk" protest.
Event organizers urged participants to wear their bra on the outside of their clothes to deliver the message that "breasts are not weapons".
On the Facebook event page:
We found this ridiculous as Ms Ng was originally making a complaint about suspected sexual assault of a police officer in the protest but now she has been turned into an attacker.
We also feel angry about the fact that the case has made weapons of women's breasts and seems to be saying women are wrong to shout for help when faced with an attack.
One of the rally organisers Luk Kit Ling told independent news portal inmediahk.net that the groups would rally at the police headquarters to protest against the police officer's claim he was assaulted by Ng's breast:
Luk Kit LIng explained that the rally at the police headquarters was to protest against the police officer's testimony that he was assaulted by a woman's breast.
Given that police officers they are more powerful than ordinary citizens, this case would to the extent that they could neglect complaints about sexual harassment .
Gloria Yip, a local artist, initiated a online poster action: Breasts are not weapons.
Performance artist Gloria Yip initiated an online poster action to protest against labelling a woman's breast as a weapon.
Below is a selection of the online protest posters:
Photo uploaded by Kobe.
Poster uploaded by a theatre actor, Leo.
Image uploaded by Bull Tsang
Mexico: “We Are the Problem Because We Disturb the Government and the Narcos” · Global Voices
Mexican anthropologist Nadia Vera was assassinated in Mexico City on July 31, along with photojournalist Rubén Espinosa and three other women.
Photo taken from her Twitter account.
Update (7 August 2015): According to the police, the women (Nadia, 18-year-old Yesenia Quiroz Alfaro, a young Colombian woman, and a Mexican housekeeper whose identities have not been disclosed yet) showed signs of having been sexually abused before being killed. Although she was originally from Comitán, Chiapas, anthropologist Nadia Vera Pérez, 32, had a precise diagnosis for the crisis of violence and impunity plaguing Veracruz, the state where she did her university studies and where she also lived.
Girls vs. Princesses: The Pink Dictatorship's Days are Numbered · Global Voices
Screenshot from Bolivian video game "Girls vs. Princesses" which aims to combat female stereotypes developed in childhood.
This post by Mabel Franco was published originally in La Publica and reproduced under a content sharing agreement.
Its proponents say it is more than a game, that it is a virus seeking to expose prejudices, remove imbalances, and hack a world where Disney Princesses exercise dictatorship over girls.
The virtual game "Girls vs. Princesses", was masterminded by the La Paz-based communications agency Nicobis that "develops programs in film, video and mutimedia and specializes in publishing children's literature." In the game, characters jump and run to avoid being qualified as a princess according to the "princess meter".
Via its company branch PICA (Smart Programs for Teenagers), Nicobis is seeking to diversify its market in Bolivia, creating applications and virtual games that exploit growing market niches in a sustainable way.
The "Girls vs Princesses" game was funded by the Dutch development organisation Hivos*, and will be available free of charge when it is released in two months time.
After tests with focus groups and subsequent modifications, "Girls vs. Princesses" will be exhibited at the La Paz International Book Fair later this month (August 5 -16), where it will be played on a Wi-like machine that reads real physical movements.
There, at a stand embellished in the style of a teenager's room, girls of all ages will be able to play the stereotype-busting game on a big screen, attempting to escape the mainstream-driven image of perfection associated with young, white/blond, thin girls, dressed in mostly pink costumes and dreaming of the love of a handsome prince.
Emiliano Longo, Nicobis's creative director, is also a father.
He has a three-year-old girl "who sometimes I call 'princess' and then I want to bite my tongue".
What concerns Longo most, however, is that his little girl wants to be a princess, no matter what her parents tells her, and has already internalized the princess concept: she doesn't want to dress in any colour but pink, and loves to wear her mother's high heels.
"Do you know what?
We are formatted," concludes Longo, who created the game "Girls vs. Princess" along with illustrator Mónica Carreño, game and application developer Enrique Oropeza and fellow creative director Carlos Mercado.
Game on
The game has two levels: a basic one, consisting of running and jumping for little girls, and a more advanced level with obstacles, high jumps and other difficulties for teenagers.
Players can choose what their alter ego is going to look like.
You can create your character on the screen and choose their skin colour (from white to purple or any other colour), the hair color and style (whether blond and straight or blue and curly) and dress the character as you see fit. Popular archetypes include karate girls, skater girls, graffiti artists and scientific researchers among others. Only the 'princess' look is off the menu.
As the game starts, characters proceed through a forest, a party room and a castle, with the goal of trying to avoid being trapped by the makeup an irritant fairy seeks to smear on the player.
Other hazards players must negotiate are the corseted and pompous figure-hugging dress — it is hard to jump dressed like that — a pink wardrobe that attacks by throwing high heeled shoes at the player, and, ultimately, the kiss of an obnoxious prince.
With a team of allies encompassing books, paint brushes, balls and other functional objects that save girls from being pigeonholed, players aim to keep their score on the "princess meter" as low as possible.
If they cannot, they risk becoming the hated princess herself.
Falling into the arms of the prince means game over.
Poor Princesses?
But since the game's premise is a non-discriminatory one, the question arises: Who will defend the princess’s rights?
The team's answer is merciless: for a century, Disney, the movies and the entertainment industry have all defended the princess's rights. Now, her time has come.
Longo believes the princess concepts internalized by girls "and their mothers" — not to mention the associated values — are nothing but sales strategies to promote consumption.
The 'princess' brand, he says, has been a boon to toy manufacturers, producers of clothes of a certain colour and style, "girl" makeup and other gimmicks.
This also contributes to the early sexualization of young girls and pushes them to act in a certain way to please men.
In the focus groups Nicobis ran, it became clear that girls were strongly attracted to the game, that they found the princess idea pathetic, had ambitions to be athletes or scientists and considered girls that behave like princesses ridiculous.
Those responses convince the game's makers they have found a winning tool to combat prejudice.
Boys, however, resented the fact that the game's hero is a woman, meaning that few are likely to play the game, says Enrique Oropeza.
Monica Carreño notes that games where women have leadership roles are few and far between, while female computer game characters are mostly designed to appeal to men:
"I always wondered why women fighters are almost nude and fighting in bikinis, while her male teammates appear behind heavy armor," she laughs.
The "Girls vs. Princess" game has already taken over six months of work and is slated to be ready by the beginning of October.
Whoever wants to play it will be able to download it from websites in Bolivia and other countries, or find it on Playstore and AppStore.It will also be distributed in schools along with other educational and recreational materials from PICA.
At the upcoming Book Fair Bolivian teenagers will be jumping real jumps to help their chosen characters escape the pink tyranny on a giant screen.
The princess's days appear to be numbered. *Disclaimer: Hivos is also a sponsor and partner of Global Voices
Talking to Golnaz Esfandiari, English-Language Journalism's 'Bridge' to Iran · Global Voices
Golnaz Esfandiari at the Sixth Al Jazeera Forum in March, 2011.
Photo used with her permission.
Based in Washington, DC, Golnaz Esfandiari is a senior correspondent at Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, and one of the few journalists based outside of Iran writing in English about the nuances and intricacies of Iranian society and politics.
If you're an Iran watcher, you're probably already following Golnaz on Twitter.
You might also know her blog, Persian Letters, one of the few English-language, Persian-speaker-led news sources on Iran.
Having worked at RFE/RL’s Persian service as well as for the English-language newsroom, Golnaz thinks of herself a “bridge” between the two offices.
Global Voices co-founder Ethan Zuckerman has defined "bridge figures" as people who are passionate about explaining their home cultures to people from other societies.
As Golnaz's work is very much in the spirit of the Global Voices ethos, we spoke to her about her unique role as a bridge between Iran and the English-speaking world.
Global Voices: In terms of digital journalism, you are among the more visible figures.
Your Twitter account has been ranked one of the top 10 accounts to follow on Iran by The Guardian.
Your blog Persian Letters has been a finalist for the Online Journalism Award.
Can you tell me a bit about your experience in this new media landscape?
Golnaz Esfandiari: Social media has allowed me to access unique information about Iran and Iranians.
It allows me to access a wider audience and bring more voices in my reports.
Social networking sites and applications have made it a lot easier for me to reach people on the ground, to speak to my sources.
I’ve also acquired new sources and have been able to get a better understanding of, for example, hardliners who are usually not open to an interview with us.
I’ve managed to break a few stories over the years only by reading and verifying information on blogs and content on social media carefully.
GV: You were one of the first people to criticise the notion of a “Twitter Revolution” in 2009, when many were citing Twitter as the tool for mobilizing and bringing protesters together in opposition to the fraudulent election results.
You explained in one article that you “shattered dream of a “Twitter Revolution” when you pointed out that most users covering the protest were in fact outside of the country.
Looking back, six years later, what do you think the role of social media is in Iran?
GE: I think the use of social media in Iran and its significance is increasing.
Government officials admit that and I also see more people inside the country using social media sites and apps.
I actually think that since 2009, the use of social media has increased considerably.
Some Iranians told me they joined Twitter after reading about the allegations about a "Twitter Revolution" in Iran.
Social networking sites have facilitated conversation and the sharing of content that is banned or considered sensitive, people can discuss taboo subjects relatively openly.
They also challenge state policies and stances on social media quite regularly.
The latest case is when a state media ban on former President Mohammad Khatami was announced publicly, many started sharing his images on social media.
Or I still see people sharing their concern over the house arrest of opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi, Zahra Rahnavard, and Mehdi Karroubi on social media, four years after they were put under arrest and their ties with the outside world cut.
There are many such examples.
As you know, there are few platforms where Iranians can express themselves freely.
Social media allows for relatively free discussions and exchanges of views for people inside the country.
It has also created more ties between Iranians inside and outside the country.
But it’s not all good.
Social media facilitates the spread of misinformation and conspiracy theories, which are quite popular among some segments of the society.
And of course the Iranian regime also uses social media extensively for propaganda purposes.
There is an increasing number of Iranian officials on social media, and also Iran analysts who comment regularly on the nuclear issue, some of whom have ties to the government and basically repeat the official line.
GV: You mainly write and report in English, yet you started your career in Persian-language journalism.
Is there a reason for this transition?
And can you describe if these experiences are at all different (better or worse)?
GE: I’ve been with RFE/RL for more than ten years and over the years I’ve been back and forth between our Persian service and the newsroom where I currently work.
I sometimes work as a bridge between the two, trying to incorporate reporting from our Radio Farda colleagues in our coverage for the English website and other services.
Working in the newsroom has been very different from my working experience in our Persian service.
While I’ve enjoyed my work in both services, I feel I’ve learned more in the newsroom and grown professionally.
I’ve had the privilege to work with very professional and experienced journalists who have taught me a lot.
GV: A lot of Persian-language media is run and written in the diaspora for agencies such as RFE/RL and BBC Persian.
These agencies report news about Iran in Persian for both audiences inside and outside of Iran, whereas when you write in English, you are covering Iran for mainly Western audiences.
Have you noticed a difference in the journalism styles?
And is it easy to jump between the two?
GE: Sometimes stories written for Iranian news sites are longer and less focused, information is not delivered concisely.
A straight news lede is missing, the sourcing can be weak.
There isn’t much storytelling.
Regarding my audience, I’ve noticed that I also have readers inside the country, and of course expats, so it’s not really just a Western audience.
I haven’t had problem switching, although for a strictly Iranian audience I write a bit differently in terms of the background I give.
GV: Iran is one of those complex countries with many contradictions and layers that are often hard for an outsider to grasp easily.
Do you think that with more professional journalists like yourself in the field, Iran is becoming a little bit less of an alien entity in the west?
GE: I certainly hope so, although every now and then there are still misleading reports based on a lack of understanding of Iran and the Iranian people—there are still lots of simplifications, exaggeration, or misperceptions.
Knowing the language is key for good reporting; it is important to be able to read the Iranian press—not only Western media reports—and talk to the people in their own language.
I think Iranians on social media are also playing a role in explaining to the world that their country is more than a number of nuclear facilities and mean clerics who make controversial statements.
GV: One last question: if you weren’t a journalist reporting on Iran, what would you be doing?
GE: That’s a question I sometimes ask myself....
I would probably be using my degree in psychology and working with refugees from Syria or other countries.
Over the years, my respect and admiration for medical workers has increased significantly.
So in another life that could have been a career I would have pursued.
Talking to Iranian Feminist Author Nina Ansary on the Eve of Change in Iran · Global Voices
This is the third in a series of interviews with Iranian journalists and writers who have dedicated their careers to communicating Iran's complexities and contradictions to those outside of the country.
Read the first with Golnaz Esfandiari, and the second with Kelly Golnoush Niknejad.
It was Sunday 12 July, 2015, the night before what was supposed to be the last deadline for the Vienna talks.
Nina Ansary and I had been trying, in vain, to schedule a phone call over a few different time zones for at least a month.
We finally reached each other on the eve of the day Iran's future was supposedly being negotiated by a team of diplomats in Vienna.
Studies that make worthy contributions to the field of gender in Iran are few—notable exceptions are Janet Afary’s Sexual Politics in Modern Iran and Haideh Moghissi's many articles and books that look at feminism's role in revolutionary Iran.
But while Ansary's efforts are not a first, Jewels of Allah: The Untold Story of Women in Iran is the first book to cover the leading feminist political movements from the end of the 19th century to the present.
The book is filled with case studies and descriptions of movements such as the evolution of women's education throughout the Pahlavi and Islamic era, as well as feminist reformist journalism in the late 90's.
Janet Afary's sociological readings and Moghissi's populist revolutionary studies have compiled the history of women, but using a different methodology.
Ansary's book is a solid introduction for any lay reader looking for a overview of feminism in modern Iran.
What is innovative about the book is the way Ansary magnifies certain historical moments.
She dedicates one whole chapter to Shahla Sherkat, the activist-editor who has struggled to keep Zanan, Iran's longest running feminist publication, afloat throughout the forced closures and stealthy political maneuverings of the reformist era into the present moderate administration.
By providing a window into the work of these contemporary Iranian women, Ansary shows that feminism comes in all shapes and sizes.
That it comes, for instance, in the guise of the only female firefighter in a far-flung Iranian city, or—as in the Sherkat case study—in the form of a journalist defying social taboos in order to share the work of the global feminist movement.
"Every woman has the right to define the feminist mantra according to her own vision," Ansary told me during our conversation.
"She has to define feminism to her own cultural context."
Indeed, the purpose of Ansary's book is to allow us to understand how women have shaped Iran’s recent history, and continue to do so, while working to establish their rights and equality in a society that has traditionally marginalized them.
Ansary herself comes from a background invested in Iran's political climate.
She left Iran with her family during the revolution, when she was 12 years old.
Her father had been part of the deposed Shah’s government.
This came as a surprise to me, as Jewels of Allah is devoid of the usual ideological traps that tend to ensnare those who study Iran.
Ansary doesn’t support or identify with the regime that has held power since the Islamic Revolution: "On a very emotional level I feel a deep connection to my homeland,” she told me, “but for the last four decades. . . . this regime is a dark stain and a dark cloud over the real Iran."
At no point in the book, however, were the Pahlavi era's contributions to feminism valorized.
In fact, Ansary's book embraces the Islamic-inspired feminism that arose post-1979.
"What transpired today for women in Iran owes itself to many different pockets of history.
These were different pockets of opportunities where women were afforded a voice," explained Ansary.
Why do I connect Ansary’s book with the recent nuclear negotiations?
The topic came up, naturally, as we chatted on the evening before the deadline.
"I look at it from a strictly humanitarian perspective,” says Ansary.
“These negotiations are not addressing women’s rights violation, and other human rights concerns.
However, sanctions have debilitated the general population at large, and I’m hoping if one door opens, other doors will also open. . . it will make the regime feel they are accountable to the world, beyond just the nuclear concerns.
But taking the current regime out of the equation, I welcome the change for the Iranian people."
And her thoughts on the future of Iran, and the place of women in it?
"Cautiously optimistic. . . only because I see their resilience.
And this is because female activism has yielded partial results: women were not allowed to serve as judges, but can now serve as investigative judges.
Women weren’t allowed to enter certain fields of study, and over the years they have been able to penetrate into male dominated areas such as medicine and engineering.
I'm cautiously optimistic, but I believe women will be at the forefront of any change in Iran."
Eiffel Tower Plans?
Beware of the ‘Paris Syndrome’ · Global Voices
Japanese tourists in Paris by Lantus.
CC 2.0
Paris, commonly referred to as the "City of Lights" worldwide, receives on average 20 million visitors a year, making it one of the world's top tourist destinations.
The city also carries a significant aura with tourists who perceive Paris as a land of culture and romance with all the expectations that such label entails.
Once the novelty of a mega-city wears out, however, reality usually settles in.
And reality often bites.
After the great monuments and cultural landmarks, there are the less glamorous aspects of city life: dense traffic, pollution, petty crimes, and language barriers.
The come-down from the initial high has a name: the "Paris Syndrome".
Eiffel tower at dawn, taken from place du trocadero by Nitot.
CC 3.0.
Japanese travelers often held idealistic views of Paris, mostly concerning culturally specific expectations of service industry customs, societal manners, and urban hygiene.
When Paris did not live up to these expectations, a small group of travelers would descend into depression.
Often, depression turned into psychosis, and lead to medical treatment.
The cultural shock has been so regular that the Japanese embassy in Japan created a 24-hour hotline for those suffering from the syndrome.John Menick even investigated the concept in a video now available on YouTube:
Eriko Thibierge-Nasu, a Japanese psychoanalyst, explains to a French reporter the potential extent of the culture shock:
There are a lot of worker strikes, people can become verbally abusive, your wallet could get stolen in the streets, and a taxi can arrive 15 minutes later than planned.
All of this is difficult to comprehend in Japan.
Katada Tamami, a Japanese scientist, wrote in the Journal of Nissei Hospital about the extreme case of a Japanese professor who moved to Paris and underwent several psychological hardships:
It was a case of manic-depressive disorder who presented his symptoms, insomnia, fluctuation of mood, aggression, irritation and rise in sex drive.
Separated from his family, living alone in Paris, he has lost his identity when he worked as professor and fulfilled his duties as father and husband at home is Japan.
Moreover, his fantasy and idealization of Paris, characteristic of Paris syndrome, played a great part in his abnormal behaviors searching for his lost youth and love affair.
While the cultural shock for Japanese tourists is the most observed occurrence of the syndrome (a little less than 1 million Japanese citizens come to visit Paris each year and an average of 12 Japanese travelers a year suffer from it), other visitors have also experienced depression after visiting the city.
In a video, American traveler Mark Wolters lists a few items that struck him while visiting Paris.
Some were positive, others not so much, such as the following notes:
-The Amount of People Who Smoke
-Dog Poop...
Lots of Dog Poop...
-How Restaurants Close in the afternoon
-The Amount of Beggars You See (and pickpockets)
Professor Mark Griffiths is a Psychologist and Professor at the Nottingham Trent University.
He did a bit of research on the Paris Syndrome and reviewed the scientific literature on the subject.
Griffiths highlights the fact that there are two main types of the syndrome:
Type 1 : These individuals typically have a problematic psychiatric history and may travel to Paris for idiosyncratic “strange” or delusional reasons.
However, the onset of the symptoms is immediate upon arrival in Paris (and may even begin in the airport).
Type 2 : These individuals do not usually have a personal and/or familial psychiatric history.
The reasons for visiting Paris are typically for ‘normal’ travelling reasons but the onset of the symptoms is much later than the ‘classic’ type (i.e., three months or longer after arriving in Paris).
Christophe Soullez, a Paris resident and criminologist, explains that Asian tourists are often specifically targeted by local thieves, which adds to the Paris Syndrome.
However, specific measures are now in place to protect them:
We know that pickpockets and purse snatchers particularly target tourists.
This phenomenon, which affects mostly Paris, is so problematic that the police had to ask for the help of the judicial police department to focus more on crime prevention.
In Japan, pick-pocketing is almost non-existent.
Tourists will therefore not be as aware of organized criminals around them.
Fear not for your next Paris visit though, it is far from being all dread.
Most Paris residents are aware that adapting to the Parisian lifestyle can be a challenge.
But once you get passed the initial hurdles of adapting, which exist in any big city where locals speak a foreign language, you can start enjoying the perks.
Here are some lesser known tips to enjoy a quieter Paris, courtesy of Global Voices' own French editor, Claire:
This summer, we suggest haging out around the "Jardin des Plantes".
It is the oldest of the major parks in Paris and it was initially the king garden for medicinal plants.
Following the French Revolution, the authorities decided to transform the park into a science museum, but it has kept its "bourgeois" and provincial touch.
For a Parisian resident, the Jardin des Plantes is almost automatically associated with getting tea at the mosque, located right at the entrance.
In this beautiful mosque, opened in 1926, the friendly sparrows will almost eat off on your plate, as you enjoy your tea.
In the end, maybe this syndrome is not specific to travelers to Paris, but just a common case of homesickness.
Still, surely more can be done to ensure a better experience for visitors.
Philippe Adam, a Parisian writer who penned many articles about the relationship between France and Japan, perhaps sums it up best:
We are not doing a good job of reciprocating the affection that Japanese visitors have for France.
Should Conspiracy Theories Enjoy Free Speech Protections? · Global Voices
Port of Sousse under attack by US Air Force, 1943.
Photo from US Library of Congress, released to public domain.
Thirty-eight foreign tourists were killed in Tunisia last June when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui armed with a Kalashnikov opened fire at beach goers.
One month later, a mathematics teacher was brought before an investigative judge for alleging on Facebook that the attack in Sousse was a conspiracy.
Abdelfatteh Saied used and edited footage from France 2's TV show Envoyé Spécial and suggested that Rezgui was recruited by security officers after the Bardo Museum attack to test the effectiveness of security measures taken at hotels.
According to his baseless theory, on the day of the Sousse attack, Rezgui did not kill anyone but it was "security leaders who committed this genocide."
In the weeks following Saied's arrest, opinion in Tunisia seems to be divided between those who welcomed his prosecution and those who believe it is useless and a violation of free speech.
Journalist Haythem Mekki tweeted on July 25:
and no, accusing people and institutions of committing terrorist crimes is not freedom of expression. kisses
Papillon had a different opinion:
A guy makes a rubbish video to whitewash the Sousse murderer.
He was arrested and accused of terrorism.
This is not going to get us very far.
If this guy is not a terrorist, he will become one.
For four years, we've been explaining to him that we're a democracy, and now he is in prison for a video
Conspiracy theories are not new in the Arab region, and with the current upheavals they are unlikely to go away any time soon.
They allege among other things that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the self-proclaimed Caliph of the self-proclaimed Islamic State, is a Mossad agent; that the Charlie Hebdo massacre was carried out by (again) the Mossad or the CIA to fuel Islamophobia in Europe; and that the so-called Arab Spring was a US conspiracy.
Conspiracy theories are not only limited to the Arab region.
In the US, there are multiple theories suggesting that the 9/11 attack was "an inside job".
In Britain, conspiratorial allegations still surround the death of Princess Diana, a mere 18 years after the fact. In 2013, one theory suggested that the British military was involved in her death.
Psychologists say that a conspiracy theory reflects an individual's sense of lack of control.
University of Winchester psychology lecturer Michael Wood told VICE that "people who believe in conspiracy theories tend to feel they don't have a lot of control over their lives.
It's reassuring to believe the world can be controlled, even if that means it's not a nice place."
Political agendas can also motivate these theories.
In the Internet age, it has become easier for conspiracy theories, just like any other content, to spread further and attract larger audiences than in the past.
So should the government censor them?
And to what extent should these theories enjoy free speech protections?
We asked the Global Voices community, here's what three of them had to say.
For Anna Schetnikova, an editor for the Russian lingua site, censoring conspiracy theories would amount to "hypocrisy.
She explains:
In my own country (Russia), and as far as I know in some other countries of the world, there were people who stated that homosexuality was a sin and even a crime, so now we have a law against so called "gay propaganda."
People, who said to gay teens that all is OK with them and tried to help them with problems at school and with parents, became criminals.
From the point of view of the supporters of that law, people who support LGBT rights are not better than conspiracy theorists, because they deem the claims about human rights "unfounded and ridiculous."
Well, that law was widely considered as a violation of free speech and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
I think that it would be a hypocrisy to stand against it and other oppressive laws in different countries, while supporting an arrest of conspiracy theorists.
Yes, their ideas can be strange or even offensive from our point of view, but who knows what lead them to think as they think, and it is their right to tell what they think to others.
For Global Voices Advocacy director Ellery Biddle, conspiracy theories should not be censored per se, unless they fall under illegal speech, such as a clear incitement to violence.
Even if we don't like what a person says, their right to free speech should be protected, unless it moves into territory where they are actively inciting violence against another person or group.
Of course, there are other measures that governments may take anyway — accusations of libel or defamation, depending on how the person delivers their message and who is affected.
"You can't arrest people for what they believe.
That should be the norm," Tunisia author Ahmed Medien says, before adding:
Unfortunately, in Tunisia, the mainstream rhetoric against terrorism has become sickeningly demagogic that they've gone to measures like that.
The whole approach to terrorist actions in Tunisia is founded on the rhetoric that the young people involved in terror attacks are youth who are "misinformed" or "misled" by thoughts and practices that are alien to the country.
Thus, the government's major task is to protect the young ones from being "misled."
An interpretation of such tasks can lead to cracking down on anything that few people in the government may not agree with.
Saied has been in detention since July 16.
According to Human Rights Watch, he stands accused of complicity in terrorism under the 2003 anti-terror law.
He is also charged with “accusing, without proof, a public agent of violating the law” under Article 128 of the penal code for sharing and commenting on a photo-shopped picture of Prime Minister Habib Essid.
The photo, which shows Essid holding a shovel, was originally posted by another user.
Said shared the photo on his Facebook wall on July 12 along with a comment on a decision by the broadcast regulator to close a number of religious radios and TV stations.
He said: “as if they are waiting and thirsty for the Sousse crime to happen, to shut down all sources of moderate Islam.
As if it is a gift they got from heaven.”
Tunisian authorities appear to be cracking down on speech they deem to be supportive of and inciting to terrorism, following a surge in militant extremism targeting foreign tourists and armed forces.
Three months before the Sousse massacre, another attack on the Bardo Museum in Tunis claimed the lives of 21 tourists and a police officer.
A new anti-terror law adopted by the Parliament on July 25 prescribes a jail term of up to five years against anyone found to have “publicly and clearly praised” a terrorist crime, its perpetrator, an organization or an alliance connected with terrorist crimes, their members or their activities.
Medical Workers Dance to Celebrate Release of Sierra Leone's Last Ebola Patient · Global Voices
Sierra Leone entered a 42-day countdown on 25 August 2015 to being declared Ebola free after the country’s last known Ebola patient, Adama Sankoh, was released from hospital.
As of that day, the Ebola outbreak had killed 3,952 in the West African nation, according to the World Health Organisation.
Medical workers at the International Medical Corps treatment center in Makeni, the third largest city in Sierra Leone, danced and sang to mark the occasion.
Watch the YouTube video above posted by the International Medical Corps showing the staff's celebrations.
Amazing Japanese TV Commercial Racks Up Views · Global Voices
Screenshot from toyotajpchannel on YouTube.
An innovative commercial for aftermarket car parts has captured the attention of social media in Japan.
The premise of the video sees pedestrians suddenly joining in an game of pick-up baseball.
The participants make amazing catches, and souped-up automobiles — which the commercial is supposed to be selling in the first place — don't make an appearance until the end of the clip.
The video was released in March 2015, and has so far racked up an amazing 8 million views on YouTube.
According to some on social media, part of the appeal of the commercial is that it doesn't really appear to be a commercial:
The quality of the commercial is really good!
Although you get the feeling they wound up making a commercial better than the product they're selling LOL.
Note: The translation of the Tweet has been updated based on insights from Marc Adler.
Young Israeli Fashion Designer Prints World's First 3D Collection · Global Voices
3D printed skirt, top, and shoes from the collection of Israeli fashion designer Danit Peleg.
(Source: DanitPeleg.com)
Fashion designer and innovator Danit Peleg, 27, is giving the world something to talk about.
The creator of the world's first 3D printed clothing collection, Peleg explains:
My goal was to create a ready-to-wear collection printed entirely at home using printers that anyone can get.
I've spent the past year searching for the best solution.
She adds:
Just imagine the potential... if you're cold, print your own jacket.
Traveling with no luggage?
Just print your clothes in the hotel room.
Will we soon be able to design, share, and print our own clothes directly from home?
The collection is made out of a plastic thread-like material called Filaflex using a Witbox printer.
Three dimensional printing is done through a series of layering and binding of materials to create a stacking effect of each successive layer.
Fashionista reports that each of Peleg's outfits took 400 hours to print; printing out the shoes took longer.
As 3D printing technology advances and becomes quicker and more affordable, users could download and print files at home as they do with two dimensional clothes patterns.
Peleg predicts:
I think this is just the beginning.
As technologies evolve, we will soon be all printing our own clothes at home.
Provocative Images Depicting Differences Between Hong Kong and China Highlight Inter-Cultural Conflict · Global Voices
Hong Kong is not China.
Illustration from "Local Studio HK".
Facebook-based artistic collective Local Studio Hong Kong recently published a set of illustrations titled "Hong Kong is not China", marking the political, social, linguistic and cultural differences between Hong Kong and mainland Chinese society.
While the 22 illustrations that went viral on Facebook with more than 4,000 likes and 3,600 shares have been viewed by some as discriminatory — or even an expression of separatism — the anonymous artists defended their work:
Discrimination?
Separatism?
Forget about it.
The very claim "I am a Hong Konger" could be criticized as discriminative and separatist.
Any personal expression is subjective.
Hong Kongers can take a look.
You may find it self-comforting and start thinking about how to prevent Hong Kong from becoming like China.
Mainland Chinese and foreigners can also take a look and see the difference between Hong Kong and China.
Though some of the representations are biased and over-generalising, viewing them alongside the debates in the comment sections on the group certainly gives readers a clearer idea on the differences between the two societies.
It also demonstrates the self-perception of those Hong Kongers eager to defend their values against so-called mainlandization, a term frequently used in a negative sense to describe economic, social and cultural integration between Hong Kong and mainland Chinese communities since 2004, when policies such as the Mainland and Hong Kong Closer Economic Partnership were introduced by Beijing.
The first illustration (on top) marks the difference between Hong Kong and China with insignia representing the two societies.
Hong Kong is represented by the lion rock, an iconic hill on the island, while the umbrella icon recalls the 'umbrella' protest movement that took over Hong Kong's streets from September to December 2014, aimed at pressuring the Beijing government to grant Hong Kong people the right to nominate and elect the city's top leader.
China in stark contrast, is represented by the Communist Party logo and the Gate of Heavenly Peace on Tiananmen Square, the place where Chairman Mao Zedong announced the establishment of the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949, and which overlooked a brutal crackdown on student protests in 1989.
The Basic Law in Hong Kong grants Hong Kong people's right to have dual nationalities.
This passport illustration is factually correct, but as one commenter pointed out:
Shhh...keep it a secret!
Actually many many Chinese people hold more than one passport!
And many of them are making "patriotic" and pro-communist party comments here on Facebook right now!
Simplified and traditional Chinese font.
Simplified Chinese characters were promoted by the Chinese Communist Party in mainland China to increase literacy rates after the establishment of the PRC in 1949.
In regions not under the CCP's direct rule including Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan, however, traditional Chinese is the official written language.
Many Hong Kongers believe traditional Chinese is more authentic as the shape of the character reflects its meaning.
The word "love" indicated in the illustration, for instance, is composed of a number of morphemes including a hand, a shelter, a heart and a friend when written in traditional Chinese script.
In simplified Chinese, the heart is missing.
Different currencies.
Difference body postures while waiting.
Some find the above illustration offensive as the 'squatting' posture could be regarded as somehow more primitive.
Of course, it can be interpreted otherwise, as one commenter joked:
Chinese: Healthy enough to squat down.
HK: Too fat, knees will snap.
Putonghua and Cantonese' pronunciation of "fxxk your mother".
China and Hong Kong territories.
Even this seemingly objective illustration triggered some politicized ripostes, such as this one:
No, it's not a good example.
Firstly, Tibet and Uyghur region, I support their independence.
So for me, I think they shouldn't be Chinese territory either.
Toilet hygiene.
Many disagree over the generalisation inherent in these toilet scenes:
Ha, this is so biased.
Try to increase HK population by about 20000% and see if HK people are clean as you think
please visit any 公廁 in HK and see for yourself
As a former colony of the United Kingdom, Hong Kong drives to the right hand side of the road while mainland Chinese stick to the left hand side.
Difference in world view.
Many commenters found grounds to disagree with this depiction too:
nope. sorry. raised in HK but can't agree with this. this is just an insult with no factual basis.
Subway courtesy seats in China and Hong Kong.
The above representation is far from realistic, as another commenter points out:
CLEARLY, you have not be on the MTR , especially during busy hours.
Lived in HK all my life and have never seen this. ever.
Such biases...
People's relation with their leaders.
This picture triggered a heated debate:
Chinese love to be enslaved? . . .seriously? this is pure insult with no factual basis.
And a sarcastic reply:
You think it is an insult because you are brainwashed by western imperialist values.
Patriotic Chinese do think it is an honour to be enslaved and manipulated by the Chinese Communist Party.
Have you heard of the song “Learn the Good Example of Lei Feng"?
Here are the lyrics: "Loyal to the Revolution and the Party...Willing to be the screw of the Revolution machine..."
Street banners.
Political propaganda is frequently seen on the streets of mainland China.
In Hong Kong, the above banner "God Crush the Chinese Communist Party" is the slogan of a religious group, Falun Gong, which has been outlawed in mainland China but is still very active in Hong Kong.
food security
There is zero dispute about the representation of the food security problem in mainland China.
Facebook and Twitter are available in Hong Kong.
Mobile messaging apps.
Email options
Actually, there are more email service providers in mainland China than in Hong Kong, but most of the email services lack https encryption meaning authorities can access user and content data without accountability.
Police officers.
Surprisingly and unfortunately, people agree that Hong Kong police now acts like mainland police.
Media
China Central Television (CCTV) is the most important mouthpiece of the CCP while Asia Television (ATV) is explicitly pro-Beijing Television in Hong Kong.
As ATV's audience is so small, it lacks the advertising revenues required to power its operation.
Under huge public pressure, the Hong Kong government has decided to discontinue its free-to-air license.
Some mainland Chinese pointed out in the comments section, CCTV is not a "must" and there are other choices.
Yet even commercial television channels in China are subjected to the censorship of the single party government.
In Hong Kong, a practice of self-censorship also prevails on mainstream television and in newspapers.
Feeling hurt.
Here the glass heart represents an easily broken heart.
Chinese diplomats often invoke the phrase "hurt the Chinese people's feelings" to criticize negative comments about China.
This illustration was misunderstood by many who thought it implied Chinese people were weak-hearted.
Missing numbers in China.
The numbers "6" and "4" are highly sensitive in China as combined they evoke the June 4 Tiananmen incident of 1989.
Every year, when the June 4 anniversary is near, related numbers, like 64 and 1989, become unsearchable on the Chinese Internet.
Political systems
Many disagreed about the depiction of Hong Kong's political system here since the administration is "executive-led" and the legislature does not have actual power since lawmakers cannot propose private members' bills that change the administration's public expenses.
The constitutional principle "One Country, Two Systems" that defines the relationship between China and Hong Kong is often understood in a political-economic sense and the term "two systems" refers to the pair's respective socialist and capitalist systems.
However, as China grows more capitalistic, many Hong Kongers see the distinction between Hong Kong and China in more socio-cultural terms.
While the struggle for genuine universal suffrage on the political front is one way of defending the city's autonomy, a parallel cultural battle is taking place in which Hong Kongers attempt to redefine the city and its people's identity.
Meet Venezuela's Orthodox Priest Who Rocks in His Robes · Global Voices
Orthodox priest, Fernando Rivas, has his own band, Irinika, which he uses to send the public a message of trust and faith, but without the religious label.
"I'm out to convince people, not just stay with those already convinced," assured the 47-year-old from Caracas.
Photo: Jorge Santos Jr (used with permission).
Text originally published on the blog Tesis y Antítesis
A man attending a Fathers' Day celebration, or the end-of-year function at his son's school, at first appears to be the most normal thing in the world.
However, the fact that this parent is a priest, and also introduces himself to staff in his robes, at the very least would raise a few eyebrows and get people talking.
For years this odd situation was life for Fernando Rivas, a graduate of an International Studies program, born in Caracas, the capital of Venezuela, in 1968.
Could it be that he was committing, in public, the most serious act of blasphemy?
Not at all, as although Rivas is priest, he belongs to the Greek Orthodox Church, which permits its ministers to marry and have families.
But this explanation has to be repeated constantly, as much by his children to their classmates and friends as by the priest himself when around other fathers at street fairs.
It all began in 1996 when Rivas and his wife decided to travel to Bulgaria, planning to study.
Being an opera singer, the man of the house wanted to deepen his musical knowledge, while his wife went looking to improve her knowledge of visual arts, specifically of Byzantine iconography. We went there to study, but we began going to church and there the priest, who was Orthodox, began asking me for help with the liturgy, and after a long time he asked me if I was interested in getting ordained.
A screen grab of the escape video footage taken by a CCTV camera outside the Royal Gaol on Frederick Street, in Port of Spain, Trinidad.
Video posted by Beyond the Tape's Facebook page.
Two videos of Friday afternoon's jailbreak in Port of Spain, Trinidad have surfaced on social media.
The footage appears to have been taken by CCTV cameras inside and outside of the Royal Gaol on Frederick Street where the escape occurred, and then filmed from a computer screen—the voices of the persons filming can be heard in voiceover.
The videos posted on Facebook by Beyond the Tape, a local crime-related reality television show.
The series works alongside the Trinidad and Tobago Police Service to give viewers a behind-the-scenes look at crime in the country.
The first video captures the view from the prison entrance: https://globalvoicesonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/videoo-int.mp4
At the time of publishing, the video post had over 17,000 views and more than 1,200 shares.
Facebook user Bryce N. Stowe commented:
A jail holding high risk criminals in the middle of a heavily populated city, POS (near impossible to catch escapees as they can go any direction & get transport out easily).
No armed officers at strategic points in the prison (like the exit).
Prison officers say the jail wall is low enough that people can through things over for prisoners.
Over a decade now with the crime situation getting worse each day with prisoners having access to phones/internet for years yet jammers have not been implemented in the nations prisons up to this day.
Poorly thought out facilities allow prisoners to escape as easily as we just saw.
Billions and billions of dollars spent each year on this tiny island.
What have our governments been doing for the last 15 years?
Other netizens felt that the whole thing looked too easy.
Junior Smith quipped that it was "more of a jail release than a jailbreak", while Krys Leisel posed several pertinent questions:
Where are the rest of guards on duty?
Where did these prisoners obtain weapons from?
Where did they get their civilian clothing?
How did they know who had the keys of the door?
Do we not have a protocol that alerts the guards when a cell block has been breached?
How come more prisoners did not take the opportunity to escape as well??
A few netizens suggested that it could have been an inside job.
The second video, taken from the exterior of the prison, shows the prisoners exiting the prison gates. It was viewed over 38,000 times and shared over 1,800 at the time of publishing: https://globalvoicesonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/video-ext.mp4
Viewer Justin Thompson interpreted the sequence of events this way:
For the Ppl who don't understand .... based on the footage , there were 3 officers within the vehicle , 3 escaped prisoners , as the men emerged from the prison gate shooting , 1 of the officers got shot , also as they were shooting 1 of the men threw a grenade on the driver side , who happened to b the only officer that saw the grenade , got out of the vehicle and ran up to the corner while the other officer attended to his wounded colleague.
The officer (driver ) who ran to the corner came back to the vehicle and at that point he drove to the hospital
At the time or writing, neither the police, the Ministry of National Security or any other official body had commented on the videos or their authenticity.
14 Films That Have Been Banned in Iran Since 2007 · Global Voices
Maadare Qalb Atomi (Atom Heart Mother has failed to make it to cinemas without any official explanation.
Image from film publicity.
This is the second part of a post that originally appeared on iranhumanrights.org and is published here in collaboration with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
Read the first part on Global Voices here.
Under President Hassan Rouhani, Iran has continued to ban films despite his repeated statements on the need to allow more cultural freedoms in the Islamic Republic.
“Rastakhiz” was the latest addition to the list of forbidden cinema, barred from screens in July 2015 by the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance, under the direct authority of Rouhani.
The International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran has compiled the following report on 14 films banned since 2007 in Iran.
Other films may also have faced censorship issues but their makers have chosen to remain quiet, hoping to eventually get a screening permit.
RASTAKHIZ (Hussein, Who Said No), directed by Ahmad Reza Darvish
Director Ahmad Reza Darvish directed the epic religious tale of the Ashura revolt.
Despite abiding by many of Iran's religious ethics to make the film, conservative religious elements eventually called for its ban.
"Rastakhiz" (Hussein, Who Said No) opened in cinemas on July 15, 2015, but was pulled within hours because of criticism from conservative religious leaders and protests by religious hardliners in front of the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance.
"Rastakhiz" is a religious feature film set in 7th century Iraq that tells the story of the Ashura revolt, when Hossein, the Prophet Mohammad’s grandson and the third Imam of Shia Muslims, fought against the ruling caliph and died in an unequal battle near Karbala.
Some religious leaders took issue with the depiction of Imam Hossein’s uncle Abolfazl al-Abbas.
According to Shia theology, reproducing the face of the Imams and their family members is forbidden.
Director Ahmad Reza Darvish received many awards and accolades when "Rastakhiz" was first shown at the 2015 Fajr International Film Festival.
But criticism from religious quarters was so strong that he was forced to cut 40 minutes of the film to satisfy Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance censors.
Some religious leaders, however, were still dissatisfied and eventually forced the Ministry to pull its permit.
“As far as I’m aware as the director, this film has been made in accordance with the views of religious leaders, during the research phase when it received permission for production, and during the making of the film,” Darvish told ISNA, the official Iranian Students’ News Agency.
“Even before public screening, when the film was being revised, representatives of some honorable religious leaders were present and some of them praised the filmmakers.”
According to the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance spokesman Hossein Noushabadi, “'Rastakhiz' will remain in suspension until its issues are resolved.
In any case, this film will be screened at cinemas.
But we hope the esteemed director and producer will cooperate with us so that we can resolve the issues more quickly.”
It is unclear if Darvish has agreed to make more revisions.
KHANEH DOKHTAR (The Girl’s House), directed by Shahram Shah-Hosseini
Image from Khooneh Dokhtar (The Girl's House), a film banned for being against "traditional and family values" by hardliners.
Image from ICHRI.
"The Girl’s House" (2014), directed by Shahram Shah-Hosseini and written by Parviz Shahbazi, deals with issues facing Iranian women while telling the story of two female university students who try to solve the mystery surrounding the murder of one of their classmates.
Conservative media have slammed the film for being against “traditional and family values” and despite a number of revisions, it has not received a permit for public screening.
"The Girl’s House" was only screened at the 2015 Fajr Film Festival, after which it came under intense attacks from ultraconservative religious circles, and the Tehran Municipality’s cultural affairs division opposed its screening at cinemas under its management.
The state broadcasting organisation IRIB (Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting) reported that “nearly all viewers” considered the film to be immoral and the conservative Fars News Agency described it as an attempt to demonize religious Muslims and please foreign film festival judges.
Director Shah-Hosseini has dismissed the criticism.
“I reject any accusation that this film is against Iranian or Islamic morals,” he told ISNA news agency.
MEHMOUNIYE KAMI (Kami’s Party) and MAADARE QALBE ATOMI (Atom Heart Mother), directed by Ali Ahmadzadeh
Kami's Party promotional picture.
Ali Ahmadzadeh has made two feature films in his young directorial career and both have yet to get screening permission.
His first film, "Kami’s Party", about a road trip by a group of youths, was rejected by censors because they thought the actresses did not cover themselves properly.
"Mother of the Atomic Heart", Ahmadzadeh’s latest film, has failed to make it to the cinemas without any official explanation.
But its title has fueled rumors that the ban is due to references to Iran’s nuclear program.
Despite problems at home, Ahmadzadeh’s films were well-received abroad.
"Kami’s Party" won the Best Film Award at the third Festival of Iranian Films in Prague and "Atom Heart Mother" was screened at the Berlin film festival.
A member of the production team of "Atom Heart Mother" told the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran that censors have not explained why it has been banned. “What usually happens is that if a film has a chance of being screened after censorship and revisions, the monitors will discuss it in a meeting with the director.
But there are some films which have fundamental problems in terms of plot, screenplay and production and for those the monitors will not even bother to set up meetings,” he added.
ASABANI NISTAM (I’m Not Angry), directed by Reza Dormishian
Asabani Nista.
Promotional film image.
"I’m Not Angry" was widely praised by film festival audiences but the reaction by hardline members of parliament, state media and conservative pressure groups was quite the opposite, forcing officials to ban special screenings of the film and to cancel a promotional press conference.
Dormishian’s film is about a university student who gets expelled because of his political activities and struggles to control his anger.
Hardline critics are particularly displeased with scenes showing the turbulent events after the 2009 presidential elections in a positive light.
Despite its popularity with the Fajr film Festival’s audiences, "I’m Not Angry" was pulled from the festival’s competition category to ensure it received no awards, even though its leading actor Navid Mohammadzadeh had been nominated for the Best Actor award.
At the awards ceremony, this note was read on behalf of the director: “Out of respect for the integrity of Iranian cinema and preserving peace, we will pass on our awards.
Hoping for better days.”
BOLOOKE NOH KHOROOJIE DO (Block 9, Exit 2), directed by Alireza Amini
Directed by Alireza Amini, the 2014 the Fajr International Film festival refused to show "Block 9, Exit 2″ because the organizers thought it was too “bitter”.
Still, the film was screened at a number of foreign film festivals.
Most recently it won Best Film and Best Actor awards at the Kimera Film Festival in Italy.
ASHGHALHAYE DOOSTDASHTANI (Lovely Garbage), directed by Mohsen Amiryoussefi
Ashghalhaye Doostashtani.
Promotional image.
"Lovely Garbage" did not get permission for public screening when it was completed in 2012 during Ahmadinejad’s presidency.
But director Amiryoussefi has still not been able to show his third film in cinemas because the censors are unhappy about scenes related to the disputed 2009 presidential election.
The film begins with a group of protesters demonstrating against the results of the election.
They run away from the security forces and take refuge inside the home of an old woman.
There they discuss and criticize events of the past 30 years.
“Despite the insistence of the producer and some politicians, this film has not received a viewing permit and there are no plans to screen it,” Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance spokesman Hossein Noushabadi said in November 2014.
KHERS (The Bear), directed by Khosro Masumi
Khers.
"The Bear" (2011) tells the story of a prisoner of war who returns home after many years in captivity to find his wife has remarried.
Although the film has undergone some revisions, it has not yet been released for public viewing.
“This film has not crossed any red lines. We even did some changes for the Fajr Festival,” director Khosro Masumi told the Aftab newspaper on November 30, 2014.
“Despite our efforts, the film is still banned and it’s not clear why.
This isn’t pleasant for the producer who invested in the film but I’m still hopeful "The Bear" will be screened.”
GOZARESHE YEK JASHN (The Report of a Party), directed by Ebrahim Hatamikia
Gozareshe Yek Jashn.
Image from Borna News, published for reuse.
"The Report of a Party" was nominated for several awards when it was first shown at the Fajr Film Festival in 2011.
It depicts events at a matchmaking agency managed by a woman who is targeted by the police.
But critics accuse director Hatamikia of hiding the film’s true message in support of those who challenged the validity of the 2009 election results.
In an unprecedented move, the state-owned Film Organization purchased the rights to the film in order to cover Hatamikia’s production costs, a favor shown to no other banned film in the past.
Hatamikia has not commented on the film’s status.
“The Guidance Ministry owns this film and there are no plans to screen it,” according to Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance spokesman Hossein Noushabadi.
KHIABANHAYE ARAM (Calm Streets), directed by Kamal Tabrizi
Khiabanhaye Aram.
The leading character in "Calm Streets" is a reporter who is suddenly faced with events similar to the aftermath of the 2009 elections.
Not surprisingly, it has yet to be shown in cinemas.
“I was pretty much sure that this film would be banned if officials lacked tolerance.
There are certain sensitivities surrounding this film and according to what they have told us this film will not be screened for the time being, because it is somehow related to the 2009 incidents,” director Kamal Tabrizi told Borna news agency in August 2013.
PARINAAZ, directed by Bahram Bahramian
Parinaaz.
Bahram Bahramian’s second film is about a little girl who is raised by relatives after the death of her parents.
The lead female character, played by Fatemeh Motamed-Aria, is a traditional woman who wears the chador, the full-body cloak.
“This woman is very religious and suffers from deep personal issues which cause problems inside the home.
Although these issues get resolved at the end of the film, the cinema authorities have said that a chadori woman should never be shown with moral or psychological issues,” the film’s producer Abdolhamid Najibi said in an interview in July 2014.
After President Rouhani’s election and the arrival of new officials in charge of the film industry, Parinaaz was issued a screening permit but the film has still not been shown in public.
EEN YEK ROYA NIST (This is Not a Dream), directed by Mahmoud Ghaffari
Een Yek Roya Nist.
"This is Not a Dream", Mahmoud Ghaffari’s first feature film, was made in 2010.
It is about a struggling young girl who gets caught up in a couple’s complex relationship.
“'This is Not a Dream' was sent to the 2013 Fajr Film Festival but after being shown to the selection committee, I was told it needed changes and I acted on their request.
But even after the revisions, it was again rejected by the selection committee,” director Mahmoud Ghaffari told Mehr news agency on January 7, 2013.
KHANEYE PEDARI (The Paternal House), directed by Kianoush Ayari
Khaneye Pedari.
"The Paternal House" received a screening permit in 2014, five years after it was first made.
But after only 10 showings at one theater in Tehran, it was pulled by the authorities.
Many have been critical of a scene where a fanatical boy brutally murders his sister with a rock.
But veteran director Kianoush Ayari believes that is not the real issue behind the banning.
“The scene where the boy is ordered by his father to beat his sister with a rock only lasts a few seconds.
That’s the only violent scene, which is nothing compared to similar scenes in other films which are screened without any problem in the cinemas.
So it’s clearly an excuse.
It looks like there are other interpretations which have caused this film to be banned,” Ayari told the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
“It has been mentioned that this film has a tendency to reject Islamic behavior, but I don’t accept this view.
That interpretation is completely wrong,” he added.
Ayari’s harshest critics have been in the Iranian Parliament.
A day before the short-lived screening of "The Paternal House" on December 25, 2014, Morteza Agha-Tehrani, a member of the Cultural Affairs Committee, said that MPs believed "The Paternal House" is unsuitable for public viewing and its permit should be revoked.
“It’s not right to attack our nation’s history with misguided ideas and our forefathers of discrimination and violence against women,” Agha-Tehrani said.
SAD SAL BEH EEN SALHA (A Hundred Years Like This), directed by Saman Moghadam
Sad Sal Beh Een Salha.
The main character in "A Hundred Years Like This" (2007), directed by Saman Moghadam is a woman named Iran who goes through many stages of life during a 30-year period.
She first loses her husband in the 1979 Revolution, then her son in the Iran-Iraq war, and then other relatives who becomes victims of various social and political upheavals.
The references to the human cost of the revolution and the establishment of the Islamic Republic have made authorities reluctant to release it to the public.
As a result, its only screening was in the Fajr Film Festival in 2010.
“'A Hundred Years Like' This received a screening permit during the previous administration but there are no plans to screen it in this administration,” said Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance spokesman Hossein Noushabadi in November 2014.
18 Stunning Photographs of the Rana Tharus From the Southern Foothills of Nepal · Global Voices
Rana Tharus - The silver white looks strikingly beautiful on the bright dress and black shawls.
Image by Solveig Boergen.
Used with permissionOnce rich landlords, Rana Tharus — the natives of Kailali and Kanchanpur districts in far-western Nepal — have witnessed loot, encroachment and discrimination.
Their isolated villages have been regularly looted by dacoits.
They were displaced when the Shuklaphanta Wildlife Reserve was being extended, and many lost their ancestral land during a land settlement programme.
The Tharus in Chitwan were reduced to occupying only 14 percent of their area after an anti-malaria programme sprayed DDT (Dichloro Diphenyl Trichloroethane) around their homes.
Earlier, they occupied almost 90 percent of the area.
It is hard to find written documents about the Rana Tharus as they have lived in isolation, writes Bikram Rana in his blog:
In India Rana Tharus of Khiri, and Nainital are under scheduled tribes.
In case of Nepal in terms of habitats Rana Tharus are the native residents of Kailali and Kanchanpur since 16th century and are the first settlers of the two districts later they were joined by Dangauras of Dang and after the eradication of malaria and resettlement plan of Panchayat regime, Khasiyas joined.
However, despite of all odds, they have not forgotten their culture and tradition.
Their way of life remains distinct and their traditional clothes and ornaments are a delight to every photographer and designer.
Solveig Boergen, a German photographer who lives and works in Japan, travelled to the Kanchanpur district of western Nepal to capture the daily lives of the Rana Tharus.
Here is what she saw:
As the sun peeks from the window of the mud house, an old Rana lady is busy preparing meal.
The mighty rays illuminate the surrounding and the dark corner of kitchen turns into a portrait painted in ochre.
The morning chores comprise cleaning the premises and taking the cattle out in the open.
The morning chores comprise cleaning the premises and taking the cattle out in the open.
The young one is a helping hand in looking after the goats and bringing grass for the animals.
The lady in her bright blouse sits on a rope cot and makes clay figurines for her grandchildren to play with in the upcoming festival.
She draws inspiration from the nature, the tattoos on her arms and the bright colours of her blouse.
Like William Wordsworth's Solitary Reaper, the lady reaps the paddy alone.
Her bright costume stands out in the sea of yellow.
When her friend joins her, it seems like a competition between the traditional dress she is wearing and the modern dress her mate is adorning.
Both the colours burn bright in the yellow field.
The coming together of the community for a bountiful catch is a moment to watch.
The joy of working together and sharing the catch – there’s plenty to learn from them.
The catch is enough for everyone.
It's the marriage season and the ladies show off their ornaments.
Mirror! Mirror! Who is the fairest of all?
Tell me if I don't look good.
And they don’t even leave the legs.
They are laden with the silver ornaments.
Like the beautiful patchwork in their dresses, the colours chosen by Ranas form a melange of vivid colours inspired by nature.
The young ones, careless and carefree, play and roam around the village.
Their smiles are precious and innocent.
Whether the young ones will follow the footsteps of their forefathers and conserve the rich culture – the future will decide.All images used with permission.
A version of the story was published in the blog Voice of Tharus.
How 8 Prominent Iranians Think a Nuclear Deal Will Impact Human Rights · Global Voices
The photo was mixed by the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
This post first appeared on iranhumanrights.org and is published here in collaboration with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
“Our next agreement will be on our civil rights!” was one of the slogans people chanted in Tehran during their street celebrations only hours after a nuclear agreement was reached on April 2.
During his election campaign, President Hassan Rouhani repeatedly pledged to observe citizens’ rights, end the house arrest of the Green Movement leaders, and release all political prisoners.
However, almost two years after he took office, most of these promises have not been realized.
Some of the president’s supporters believe that following a resolution to the nuclear standoff, the atmosphere will shift to allow delivery of those promises, while some of his critics believe that the president’s performance indicates that despite his earlier statements, human rights are not on the administration’s agenda.
The International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran has interviewed several prominent Iranians representing different professions, such as lawyers, writers, directors, analysts, university professors, and artists, about the effects of the nuclear agreement on the state of basic rights and freedoms inside the country.
Mahmoud Dolatabadi, author and novelist: There is no choice but hope
Like many other citizens, I, too, wait for the nuclear agreement so that the conditions change a little inside the country.
In his speeches and election campaign pledges, Hassan Rouhani had indicated that he would pay attention to cultural issues.
We should now assume that if he finds a chance, he would probably pay attention to them.
There is no choice but to be hopeful.
Mohammad Saleh Nikbakht, human rights lawyer and academic: We shall not return to Khatami era
If the nuclear agreement is reached in June, Iran’s economic conditions will improve.
Economic improvement would naturally affect political freedom.
Even so, it will be an error to expect doors to be opened to Iranians, and for freedom, the way it existed in the early days of Mohammad Khatami’s presidency, to be reinstated.
The conditions of Iranian society today must be measured within its own characteristics.
I believe that after the agreement, certain solutions for going towards freedom in some areas will definitely be shaped and the situation of civil rights or what has been referred to as “the rights of the people” in the Iranian constitution would improve at least a little.
Naghmeh Samini, playwright and drama professor at Tehran University: Better conditions for theater
It would be impossible not effects or improvements in the country’s artistic and cultural atmosphere following a nuclear agreement.
For example, after the nuclear agreement, the relationship between Iranian theater groups with groups from other countries would definitely improve.
Our current problem is translating Iranian plays into other languages and being in touch with other theatrical groups in other countries, and performing there.
Regardless of what the government wants to do, I think after the nuclear agreement and improvement in Iran’s relations with the West, these things would automatically happen for professional and student theater groups in Iran, and the work atmosphere would get better.
Another point is that after the nuclear agreement, the country’s economic situation would improve, which would naturally affect the cultural situation.
Ghasem Sholeh Sadi, lawyer, former member of parliament, former professor of international law, and former political prisoner: I am not optimistic
I doubt the nuclear agreement will have a positive impact on solving human rights issues inside the country, because there are several reasons for the situation of human rights in Iran.
One part of it is a difference of ideological views, for example, such as torture and Qisas that are referred to in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are seen by Iranian officials as contradictory to our laws.
Another point is that there are no true monitoring mechanisms in Iran to oversee enforcement of human rights.
When Hassan Rouhani became president, it was expected that human rights would be better observed in the society, but the number of executions indicates that there are many more instances of executions carried out in the country.
Not too long ago, Ali Younesi, Rouhani’s special assistant, and former Tehran prosecutor and minister of intelligence, told the Iranian Student News Agency (ISNA) that human rights violations occur in the country’s prisons and courtrooms.
For all these reasons, I am not optimistic that a finalized nuclear agreement would have a huge impact on improving the human rights situation inside Iran.
Massoud Shafiee, lawyer: The agreement will impact civil liberties
Before Mr. Khamenei’s April 9 speech, I couldn’t have a clear view about this subject, but in his speech, he mentioned a key factor that settled everything.
While he took issue with the work of the nuclear negotiators, mentioning that the agreement is still in draft phase, and that a complete agreement has not been reached yet, he said that if the agreement is finally reached and Iran walks out of the negotiations satisfied and the other side shows their honesty, it is possible to talk about other issues with the U.S. and western countries later.
My understanding of this part of the Supreme Leader’s talk is that after a nuclear agreement, there will definitely be openings in other areas in society, and this will definitely have an impact on civil liberties, as well.
Kambozia Partovi, author and filmmaker: Change is not Rouhani’s priority
I think creating change in the country’s artistic and cultural structures is not among the Rouhani administration’s priorities.
Nevertheless, when Iran reaches a nuclear agreement, the country’s economic situation will improve, and naturally, improvement of the economic situation would cause more investment for making more films.
But generally, it is not possible to give a definitive opinion about whether or not the cultural atmosphere in the country would open up.
I can only say definitively that after the nuclear agreement things would be better than now, and at least artists would continue their work with more peace about the economy.
Fariborz Raisdan, economist, former university professor, former political prisoner: No change in liberties due to government’s lack of commitment
There will definitely be a limited economic improvement, and a section of the middle class will experience a moderate improvement, but this improvement will not mean that the country’s poor will be saved.
Currently we have 5.5 million unemployed individuals, and the minimum monthly wage for workers is almost 50% below the poverty line.
These problems won’t be solved by a nuclear agreement and an agreement with the U.S. and other countries.
Even before the nuclear issue became significant, we had a lot of poverty and unemployment in our country.
Currently, 70% of the country’s disposable income is in the hands of 5% of the population.
Is the country’s political and economic structure going to change after the nuclear agreement?
Iran’s economic structure is in the hands of two powerful factions, each of whom controls a section of the economic power and they wrestle over it.
As far as the low income , laborers, and female heads of household are concerned, this nuclear agreement is not going to change anything for them.
Regarding expression social, ethnic, and religious rights, nothing much will change, because the Rouhani administration does not believe in allowing labor organizations and parties to be active, and does not tolerate intellectuals to speak freely and to question the ideological and power fundamentals, and to defend their human rights.
Has our problem always been the issue of sanctions and relations with the U.S.?
For example, the Iranian Writers Association was suppressed during years when Mr. Rouhani himself was the head of the Supreme National Security Council.
I believe that human rights in the form of freedom of association, freedom of expression, women’s rights, and removal of gender, ethnic, and religious discrimination is not compatible with the ruling ideology.
For example, in the case of women’s rights, after all this time we are still talking about whether or not women should attend sports stadiums.
They say this is because the police can’t take responsibility for looking after women’s safety .
How is it that the same police can crack down on a woman whose Islamic covering is a little imperfect?
Sadegh Zibakalam, political analyst and researcher: Changes only over long-term
I believe that the nuclear agreement will be influential in improving the conditions inside the country, but not in the short-term; rather, it will show its impact over the long-term.
This is for the simple reason that the nuclear agreement will lead to improved relations and a reduction of tension between Iran and western countries and the U.S., and this will indirectly help improvement of many issues in Iran.
Conversely, when there is a tension-ridden relationship full of hatred between Iran and other countries, the energy required for changes inside is sapped.
Regarding the opening of the artistic and cultural atmosphere in the country and freedom of expression, I believe that if intellectuals, the elite, university students, and artists don’t demand Hassan Rouhani to pursue this issues, nothing will happen.
He must be pushed in this direction.
If he is put under pressure, he would definitely be forced to pay attention to creating change in the cultural and artistic situation, too.
Iranian Journalist Ahmad Zeidabadi Sent Into Exile After Six Years in Prison · Global Voices
Ahmad Zeidabadi is sent to serve out a sentence in exile after being released from prison this past May.
Photo taken by Fars News Agency, and published for distribution.
This post first appeared on iranhumanrights.org and is published here in collaboration with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
Ahmad Zeidabadi, a journalist who served six years in prison for his work, was transferred to the city of Gonabad in northeastern Iran on 22 May to begin serving his time in exile.
The Tehran prosecutor’s office informed Zeidabadi’s family in late May that he would be exiled to Gonabad immediately upon release from Rajaee Shahr Prison.
The immediate enforcement of Zeidabadi’s exile after such a long prison sentence is unusual and particularly shocking to his family, as many thought that his exile sentence would not be enforced.
A source knowledgeable about his case told the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran that his family was informed by the court that his five-year exile sentence had been changed to two years.
The new decision, however, has not been officially announced by the court.
Revolutionary Guard intelligence agents arrested Zeidabadi, who is also secretary general of Iran’s nationwide Alumni Association (Advar), on June 12, 2009, and transferred him to the Guard’s Ward 2-A inside Evin Prison.
He was put on trial on November 23, 2009, and was sentenced to six years in prison, five years in exile in Gonabad, and a lifetime ban on social and political activities on charges of “propaganda against the state,” “assembly and collusion to create riots after the presidential election,” and “insulting the Supreme Leader.”
In February 2010, along with a number of other political prisoners, he was transferred to Rajaee Shahr Prison in Karaj, outside Tehran, where he served most of his prison term.
As a political analyst, he began his journalistic career at Etela’at Newspaper in 1989, and in the years prior to his arrest worked primarily with reformist newspapers.
He was also a member of the board of directors of the Association of Iranian Journalists.
The main reason for his 2009 prosecution was an open letter he had written to Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, criticizing him for his lack of accountability.
According to the court order, Zeidabadi has to appear at the Gonabad governor’s office in person.
“Earlier, an official inside the Tehran prosecutor’s office had informed Mr. Zeidabadi’s family about the enforcement of the journalist’s exile sentence, but the family did not believe it, as they didn’t think the officials would subject him to further torment after six years ,” said the source.
In a May 19, 2015, post on her Facebook page, Zeidabadi’s wife, Mahdieh Mohammadi Gorgani, wrote, “We were waiting for Ahmad to be released on May 21 after six years in prison, but now they say they will take him to exile from prison.
We feel so oppressed.”
Political prisoners in Iran
We do not jail people for their opinions.
The government has a plan to improve, enhance human rights in the country.
As every government should.
And I believe we have an obligation as a government to our own people to do that.
But people who commit crimes, who violate the laws of the country, cannot hide by being a journalist, being a political activist.
People have to observe the law.
However, when Iranian Member of Parliament Ali Motahari was asked about whether there were political prisoners in Iran during a May 12, 2015, visit to Zanjan University, he answered:
Some prisoners had no role in the events of 2009 , but they are in prison simply because they have reformist thinking, or were active during the reformist era, and I have personally never understood what crime they committed.
Learn 40 Aboriginal Hand Signs Used to Communicate Across Western Australia’s Desert · Global Voices
With its rough terrain and harsh climate, the Great Sandy Desert in Western Australia can be a challenging place to live.
For those carving out a life in this sparsely populated region, the vast distances of Australia's second largest desert can also prove to be challenging for those wanting to communicate with neighbors.
Balgo, Western AustraliaHand signs have traditionally served as a way of communicating for the Aboriginal peoples who have been on this land for centuries, long before the arrival of mobile and digital technologies.
To recognize this practical means of communication, local producer Willi Lempert partnered with a group of enthusiastic Aboriginal women elders from the community of Balgo.
Together, they created a video that told the story of 40 hand signs.
Lempert had been working in the area when the idea for an explanatory video came up.
He explained the importance of these hand signs:
While many visitors quickly learn the standard “what now?” sign, it is easy to miss the dozens of diverse hand signals being subtly exchanged in conversation.
As in all languages, some elements are traditional and others are recent innovations... hand signs are not only a way of communicating information, but also serve as full-bodied ways of expressing nuance, humor, and individual personality.
The video, which is part of the "Mother Tongue" project organized by ABC Open and First Languages Australia, also serves to promote the local language of Kukatja, a vulnerable language with less than 1,000 current speakers.
In the video, for each hand sign that the women demonstrate there is the corresponding word in Kukatja along with its English-language translation.
Lamprey wrote about how much fun he and the women had during the making of the video in a blog post.
The women elders, such as Payi Payi and Manaya who are featured in the video, play a central role in the life of the community.
As members of the Kapululangu Women’s Law and Culture Centre, they are instrumental in determining the way forward for the community.
The website for the centre states, "Nothing that happens at Kapululangu can happen without the Elders."
Kapululangu’s Elders were born in the desert, and grew up and were trained in the Old Ways before the arrival of Kartiya/non-Indigenous people in their ancestral countries.
This makes them custodians of an immense wealth of stories,skills and cultural knowledge.
They want to share this wealth The Elders want their young people to grow up strong and resilient, proud of and knowledgeable in the ways of their people, secure in their peoples' Law and Culture knowledge, so that they can better cope with the changing world.
A peoples' own Law and Culture is the glue that holds life together.
By teaming up with local producers committed to helping them tell their own story in their own language, they are ensuring that this wealth of knowledge is shared with the next generation.
You’re in the Army Now: How Drafted Ukrainian Journalists Cover the War in Their Online Diaries · Global Voices
Conscripted journalists have turned their social media accounts into personal military diaries.
Images mixed by Anna Poludenko-Young
Ukrainian journalists drafted into the military to serve in eastern Ukraine have turned their Facebook and Twitter accounts into personal field diaries.
In their posts they discuss the state of the armed forces, their daily routine, and even their meals.
Some of these diaries have achieved instant fame, raking in over five thousand readers during the first month.
Screenshot of his draft announcement from Michael Shchur's Facebook page.
Finally, here's an explanation as to why in the last episode of my show I said "I will see you in a year."
I've received a draft card.
I will be joining the military.
On Monday I depart for training.
The next two weeks will be spent gaining experience on the training range.
See you around. #army
With this post on his Facebook page, Michael Shchur, the television host of a satirical news program, announced his career change.
Shchur is a fictional persona created by Ukrainian journalist Roman Vintoniv. Many compare him to the former American The Daily Show TV host Jon Stewart, as both poke fun at the establishment and seek to bring attention to government inaction, corruption, and selective justice systems.
Now, a month since he was drafted, instead of ridiculing national politics from the TV screen, Shchur (still very much the satirical character) writes daily dispatches about his life in the army.
He regales his readers with the details of his life in the military—the good, the bad, and the slightly ridiculous—and posts plenty of photos of the day-to-day routine.
Roman Vintoniv, also known as Michael Shchur: once a wisecracking TV journo, now a freshly-minted Ukrainian draftee.
Day 5.
Today we went to the shooting range.
Early in the morning: breakfast—and then to the field.
There we went to the firing ranges and started shooting at targets.
Lying down, from the knee, standing up.
Then, in short runs, we returned to the base camp.
This was very exhausting.
Even the hunger pangs passed.
So I didn't even finish the buckwheat.
It's a first.
The shooting range.
Just a single photo, but we spent all day training here.
Day 27.
A story from yesterday.
We are experiencing a shortage of nightstands.
We need lots of them.
Sometimes five soldiers have to share one nightstand.
Any ideas?
Where can one procure 70 nightstands?
Moreover: a nightstand is actually a really inconvenient thing.
Welcome any ideas on what it can be replaced with.
Improving army meals through Facebook
Conscription announcements from public figures have generated an intense online discussion: Should Ukrainians like Shchur be drafted or are they more valuable to the country just doing their regular job?
Yevhenia Zakrevska, a human rights lawyer, wrote about Shchur on her Facebook page, lamenting the loss of his hard-hitting reporting.
This is a rare, unique case when a journalist, not participating in the information war or propaganda (or sad attempts at the latter), manages to generate an 80th-level defence against information attacks (both external and internal) and to provide an information antidote of normalcy for the susceptible brains of our people, increasing their general informational immunity.
The celebrity draftees seem to be a hot topic for Ukrainian social media users.
Even the first of Shchur’s posts about his draft card was liked over seven thousand times, shared almost 500 times and was commented on over 500 times.
Most users seemed to share Zakrevska's thoughts: you just shoudln't draft guys like him.
Meanwhile, Shchur and other journalists and writers who run their online diaries from military training camps, are seemingly managing to wield their popularity and online influence to improve some things abut how the Ukrainian military is run.
Shchur’s posts about how his unit didn’t get any fresh fruit or vegetables seemed to have an effect on military menu choices.
Now tomatoes and cucumbers are served with the soldiers’ meals.
In another post, Shchur lamented the lack of any new books or magazines to read in his unit.
The next week, a group of volunteers brought magazines donated by some publishing houses that followed the TV host on Facebook.
Challenging the official line
The public figures who are not simply drafted for training, but sent to fight directly to the front line in eastern Ukraine keep a different league of military diaries online.
They don’t write about tomatoes and nightstands: their posts center on human lives and issues with gear and ammunition.
Taras Chmut is a former regional coordinator at OPORA (a Ukrainian civic organization and movement), a contributing editor for a military news website, and currently a Marine with over 12 thousand followers on Facebook.
A post he wrote about the members of his division being limited to only 4 magazines (120 cartridges) of ammunition to finish a combat mission got over a thousand shares overnight.
Despite criticism from officers for publicly "airing" such things, in two days Chmut and the members of his unit were notified that from then on they would be given ten magazines to complete a mission.
It turned out that the Chief of the General Staff himself chanced upon Chmut’s post and decided to act on what he read.
Military bloggers explain that it is often easier to change something by talking to a crowd of your followers on social networks rather than by approaching the captain of your division directly.
“You can’t just approach the Chief of the General Staff and tell him what you think is wrong.
I believe my Facebook diary tells a popular story of the military service.
I also notice that sometimes I just fight against the irresponsibility of the officers.
Publicity is my main weapon,” Chmut said in an interview to BBC Ukraine.
The generals aren't happy
Many of the comments in popular military blogs or diaries come from people thankful for getting a glimpse of what is happening in the conflict zone and of the small, but important details of military life.
The Ukrainian army generals, on the other hand, are none too happy with this online trend.
Many of them are of the opinion that civilians don’t really need to know the private details about life in the military units.
What is more dangerous, the military commanders claim, is that some blog posts can disclose sensitive information about the locations of units, their movements, and their strategic plans.
Some open-source intelligence experts suggest that just analyzing the background and visible location on the pictures the military bloggers are posting online can reveal quite a lot.
A different kind of danger might arise if the enemy tries to use military blogs and online communities to spread fake information.
For example, in a tense situation with an exchange of fire, false reports on whether Ukrainian units are surrounded and trying to escape, and if they have enough provision, might determine how other military units choose to act.
Experts say that the solution here is to provide special online security training for soldiers and officers.
If they know what is safe to post online when on the front line, the risk of misunderstandings should be minimal.
In the meantime, the Ukrainian parliament has passed a law that limits the use of mobile and wireless communications by the Ukrainian military in the anti-terrorist operation zone in eastern Ukraine.
According to the law, soldiers will need to obtain permission from their superiors to use the phones or wait until they are back at base camp to get on Facebook and VK.
This means that journalists and bloggers reporting from the front lines might have to get strategic about their posting and jot down notes of their exploits using pen and paper until the next time they are allowed to connect to their legions of readers.
Hundreds of Austrians and Germans Turn Out to Welcome Refugees Arriving From Hungary · Global Voices
Vienna, Austria.
1 September 2015 — A banner is held up by a group welcoming refugees arriving from Syria and Afghanistan at Vienna Railway Station where they plan to stay overnight en route to Germany.
Photo by Martin Juen.
Copyright Demotix
Austrian and German citizens gathered to welcome thousands of refugees who were arriving by trains coming from the Hungarian border on September 1.
The evening before, the Hungarian police at Budapest's train station suddenly allowed refugees to enter trains leaving towards the Austrian border.
Previously, refugees were forced to stay at train stations and in temporary camps in Hungary.
Journalist Christoph Schattleitner describes how at Vienna's train station, by 10 p.m. on Monday evening hundreds of people had arrived with donations they bought at a nearby supermarket.
The outpouring of water, food and sanitary products was overwhelming, forcing some platforms to be closed.
Authorities eventually had to urge people to stop providing more donations.
When refugees reported to be from Afghanistan, Eritrea and Syria arrived in Vienna on their way to Germany, they were met with cheers and applause:
Thunderous applause.
Austria says 'Refugees Welcome'
Happiness at the West train station
The Muslim Youth of Austria helps with translating boxes of medical supplied to Arabic!
Voulunteers organize donations at the train station in Vienna.
Photo by Die Grünen Wienen.
Used with permission.
In Munich in southern Germany, more than 3,000 refugees arrived on Tuesday morning.
Also in Germany, citizens gathered at the train station to help with donations and welcome the exhausted refugees.
The hashtag #trainofhope was used to organize volunteers, advertise what supplies and products were needed and tell people how they can help.
#refugeeswelcome to the max: Refugee family is escorted . Supporters line up with umbrellas, give away soft toys.
This was very impressive today
Supporters arrange the donations in front of the central station
At some point the police in Munich urged people to stop donating:
Please do not bring any more goods for the Moment.The donations at hand will be sufficient for the refugees present and arriving today. — Polizei München (@PolizeiMuenchen) 1.
Other organizations urged people to offer their mobile wifi hotspots and shops in the central station to open their routers to the arriving refugees:
We want to install wifi at the central station in Munich.
Are there any shops close to the station who would install a router?
Refugees arriving in Germany have heavily relied on the kindness of citizens until recently, when the government ramped up its own efforts.
Last week, Germany announced that it will allow all Syrian refugees to stay and apply for asylum instead of deporting them to their first port of entry, in accordance with European Union regulations.
Europe is experiencing a tremendous influx of refugees due to conflicts in Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq as well as violence and instability elsewhere in the Middle East, South Asia and Africa.
Dangerous crossings over the Mediterranean have also increased.
Thus far, countries on the coast such as Greece and Italy have received a disproportionate number of refugees, while the Eastern European countries of Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland have resisted calls for a quota system to spread asylum-seekers out among the EU member states.
As European leaders bicker over how to deal with the crisis, people have lost their lives trying to reach the safety of the continent.
Thousands have died or gone missing in the Mediterranean, according to the UN refugee agency.
In late August, a truck with the bodies of 71 people was discovered on the side of an Austrian road; authorities say the victims, who are assumed to be refugees, suffocated.
As refugees made their way to Germany this week, many online users expressed their gratitude for and awe at the wave of solidarity among Germans and Austrians:
You cannot thank people for their support enough, those who are helping the refugees arriving at train stations or anywhere else.
THANK YOU!
Something is working fundamentally right in this country.
You overlook it often, but today it is impossible not to see it.
How Iran Used WikiLeaks to Attack a Human Rights Defender · Global Voices
Ahmed Shaheed, Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation in the Islamic Republic of Iran, presents his report at the 28th Session at the Human Rights Council, March 16, 2015.
UN Photo / Jean-Marc Ferré.
This post first appeared on iranhumanrights.org and is published here in collaboration with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
State news agencies in Iran are trying to discredit Ahmed Shaheed, the UN Special Rapporteur for human rights in Iran, through a story based on an alleged WikiLeaks document.
The authenticity of the document has been directly questioned by WikiLeaks, the well-known website that publishes secret information from anonymous sources.
In a tweet WikiLeaks wrote: “Please show which cable this claim is based on.
You fail to link to one of our cables in the article.”
Iran's media claims that a WikiLeaks document proves the Special Rapporteur received a million dollars from Saudi Arabia in return for promising stronger criticism of the Iranian government in his annual reports on the state of human rights in Iran.
Through his own Twitter account Dr. Shaheed, who has been recognized internationally as a principled and scrupulous champion of human rights, thanked WikiLeaks for clarifying and calling attention to the fact that these reports had not been authenticated.
This is not the first time a round of questionable allegations have targeted Dr. Shaheed.
The latest allegations
This latest attack comes shortly after the Special Rapporteur called on Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani to pay more attention to the country’s human rights situation now that the Islamic Republic and world powers have come to an agreement on the nuclear issue.
“It is my sincere hope that the successful conclusion of the nuclear talks, which will enable the lifting of economic sanctions, will allow President Hassan Rouhani to focus on his other campaign pledges, specifically those to promote the enjoyment of all human rights by the Iranian people,” said Dr. Shaheed in a statement published on July 15, 2015.
The current allegations appear to be a ramped-up effort by hardliners to pre-empt any increased pressure on Iran — from either inside or outside the country — to address the country’s egregious rights record.
“This claim is preposterous and only serves to distract from the task at hand—addressing the serious human rights issues facing the country today,” Dr. Shaheed said in an interview with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
“Allegations to discredit me do not change the record documented by the UN Secretary General and raised by the U.N. human rights mechanisms for the last decade.”
“Executions are taking place at an alarming rate.
Women’s rights continue to face significant challenges.
Hundreds of individuals are in detention for things they wrote, said, or posted on the Internet.
And the Baha’i leadership remain in prison for their religious beliefs,” the UN Special Rapporteur continued.
“My work, like the work of my predecessors, is based on research.
It presents laws, government statements, as well as information taken from government websites and reports.
My work presents interviews with hundreds of individuals, inside and outside Iran, that claim that their rights were violated, and my work presents the research undertaken by dozens of internationally recognized human rights organizations,” Dr. Shaheed told the Campaign.
While Iranian officials continue their efforts to discredit Dr. Shaheed and any other human rights defender who attempts to hold the Iranian government accountable for its rights violations, the international community has maintained strong support for the Special Rapporteur, noting his fair and meticulous work and invaluable contribution to the exposure of human rights abuses in Iran.
As such it has renewed his mandate every single year.
In response to a question about these allegations by a reporter from ISNA (the Iranian Students News Agency) on July 29, 2015, Mohammad Javad Larijani, Head of the Iranian Judiciary’s Human Rights Council, repeated the unsubstantiated claim that Dr. Shaheed had received bribes.
However, within hours of the remarks being posted on ISNA’s and the Fars News Agency’s websites, the link to the interview was removed.
(To see a screenshot of the removed page click here.)
Iran's many attempts to discredit Shaheed
Since being appointed as the UN’s human rights point-man for Iran in 2011, Shaheed has been refused entry into Iran, and his annual reports, detailing widespread rights abuses, have been described by Sadegh Amoli Larijani, Head of the Iranian Judiciary, as “lies” and by Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Marzieh Afkham of “lacking validity.”
In 2014 Javad Larijani, who is Sadegh Amoli Larijani's brother, called Ahmed Shaheed “a wicked fool,” and said “human rights defender” is another name for terrorist.
He stated: “Those who are referred to as ‘human rights defenders’ these days, are soiled with terrorist acts and call themselves human rights defenders…when you hear the name ‘human rights defender,’ these are individuals who commit terrorist acts.”
In 2012, Javad Larijani claimed Dr. Shaheed was being fed false information by “terrorist groups” as well as by the U.S. and Israel in support of “mostly those who have carried out terrorist organizations under the guise of human rights defenders.”
In 2013, during a session of the United Nations Human Rights Council, Javad Larijani accused the Special Rapporteur of “relying on biased sources” and working with “a notorious terrorist group” to compile his reports.
Larijani’s vitriol was so great that the president of the session felt obliged to remind Larijani not to personally attack the Rapporteur in his remarks.
The supposed “bribery” allegations are not new either.
In March 2013, Javad Larijani accused the Special Rapporteur of taking bribes from the US State Department, an allegation that was later proved to be completely unfounded.
Iran's problem with human rights defenders
Iran’s human rights chief has not just attacked Shaheed; he has repeatedly equated all human rights defenders with terrorists, making specific reference to the internationally respected human rights lawyer Abdolfattah Soltani, who has been imprisoned in Iran since 2011 for defending free speech and the right to peaceful dissent.
Iranian officials have also moved beyond their vilification of Shaheed to trash the broader human rights mechanisms at the UN and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon himself.
In remarks on November 22, 2011, Javad Larijani stated that reports by Ban Ki-moon’s office were a reiteration of viewpoints of “terrorist groups and organizations that oppose the Islamic Republic”, and that Iran was “extremely concerned” about the shortcomings of the United Nations under the leadership of Ban Ki-moon.
This pattern of attempted defamation and discrediting is not limited to the Larijani brothers: During a 2014 meeting in the city of Mashhad, Iran’s Justice Minister Mostafa Pourmohammadi also claimed that the Special Rapporteur was “corrupt.”
Iranian state media outlets that have participated in the current uncorroborated allegations against Dr. Shaheed include the Mehr news agency, which is a branch of the state-owned Islamic Promotion Organization, and the Hemayat newspaper, which is run and controlled by the Judiciary’s media arm.
The Privilege of My Canadian Passport Weighs Heavy As the Refugee Crisis Unfolds · Global Voices
A rally in solidarity with the plight of refugees in Amsterdam on September 5, 2015.
Image by author.
I'm an Iranian-Canadian, currently a resident of the Netherlands.
I'm sitting in my apartment in Amsterdam, staring at my Canadian passport. There are many stamps in there, because this passport is accepted without much trouble in much of the world.
My Dutch residency card is next to my passport.
Why do I, above anyone else, deserve these documents that give me the freedom to roam and live where I choose?
Well, it starts with my father's application to become a Canadian resident in 1985, while still living in Iran.
He had no immediate family in Canada. He was not particularly financially competitive, nor was he in a dire political bind.
The paperwork went through fairly smoothly. By 1988 my father had secured a residency visa for himself, my mother, and my sister. They made the move in early 1989, a few months before I was born.
The paperwork quickly went through, so by the time I turned three, the rest of my family were naturalized Canadian citizens alongside me, a born Canadian.
Tima Kurdi, the aunt of Alan Kurdi, whose lifeless body washed ashore on a beach in Turkey, applied for her elder brother's family to seek asylum in Canada in 2015.
She filled out all the necessary paperwork. She even assembled a team of people to pledge to the Canadian government they would support the Kurdi family when they moved.
Tima only had money to sponsor one brother at a time.
So instead, she wrote a letter to Immigration Minister Chris Alexander asking to help Alan's family.
Speaking on Vancouver morning drive-in radio, opposition Member of Parliament Fin Donnelly explained tha tin March 2015 he had hand-delivered the letter from Tima, his constituent, to Alexander but received no response.
Also read: Alan Kurdi's Death Forces Canada to Confront Its Commitment to Helping Syrian Refugees
I can't help but think what bureaucrat pushing my father's application through to the accepted pile in the 80s is responsible for the comfortable, privileged, mobile life I now lead.
I have unfettered access to most countries in the world right now.
In fact, I left a comfortable and secure life in Canada to start another comfortable, secure life in the Netherlands.
I like to think of this as the "passport privilege" I have attained through a combination of factors wholly outside of my control, or the merit of myself or my family.
My passport privilege is the product of an open immigration policy initiated by Lester B. Pearson, and later carried out by Pierre Elliot Trudeau—two Canadian Prime Ministers that cemented Canada's position as humanitarian leaders.
That policy, those leaders, and the bureaucrat that coincidentally thought my father's paperwork was acceptable within these policies have profoundly shaped the trajectory of my life.
For the Kurdi family, however, the specifics go like this.
An asylum application was delivered into the hands of a Minister of Citizenship and Immigration,found its way eventually to a bureaucrat who reviewed it in light of current policy, and issued the decisive No.
The current immigration policy has reined in the "openness" that began in the 80s, and are currently adhering to strict scales of value depending on skills and the likelihood of the immigrants staying in Canada after obtaining that privileged passport.
Those bureaucrats pushing applications through also have more authority to approve or refuse applications in light of whether they feel like the applicant will leave once they receive that golden ticket (a development more formally known as the Strengthening Canadian Citizenship Act, or Bill C-24).
In the aftermath of the Kurdi family's tragedy, the Canadian Prime Minister stated that the Canadian government was leading in the world as a safe haven for immigrants and refugees, admitting more refugees per capita than anywhere else in the world.
This was an outright lie: according to the United Nations, Canada is not even in the top 10 countries taking in refugees.
The fact that the bureaucrat who reviewed the Kurdi application refused it speaks to a tragedy we are seeing unfold continually before our eyes.
It is a crisis that rests on pieces of paper handled by bureaucrats carrying out policies administered largely by men who have never understood the weight of that privileged passport.
Like many of the rest of us, I sit here feeling helpless.
Comfortable, and assured about our place and our ability to move around in the world.
Not because we deserve it more, but purely out of circumstances that include policies, timing, and even socio-economic status.
There are many different organizations we can support, and there are many people making a difference in the middle of this.
I encourage all of you to look and support these causes.
But I also want us to question the system as a whole, the notion of movement, and the freedoms and privilege associated with them.
Is this really the way the world should be ordered?
How You Can Help Syrian (and Other) Refugees · Global Voices
An Afghan refugee family leaving the Keleti train station.
Photo by Edd Carlile, from Budapest Seen's Facebook page.
The refugee crisis in Europe has many asking how they can direct their funds and attention to Syrian and other refugees here.
There are many different initiatives, but here are a few good ones I’ve found: Refugees Welcome: The site is mainly in German, but you can donate here or sponsor the monthly rent for a refugee here.
German residents can also volunteer, or offer up a spot in their home if they have one.
Migration Aid: This charity specifically helps refugees who have arrived in Hungary and accepts both cash and goods donations.
The Migrant Offshore Aid Station helps rescue refugees at sea.
I think this is a worthy cause, but their FAQ is worth reading to understand how they treat refugees once they’re rescued.
The European Council on Refugees and Exiles doesn’t provide direct relief, but rather advocates for better policies in Europe.
British charity Refugee Action provides a range of services to refugees who’ve reached Britain’s shores.
UOSSM Canada is seeking both donations and volunteers at its Ontario location.
Those in Sweden can volunteer with “Ingen människa är illegal” (“no one is illegal”) or Swedish Network of Refugee Support Groups (FARR).
Those in Budapest can offer to volunteer with The Secret Kitchen, which provides meals to refugees there.
Two years ago, I wrote a post about how you can help Syrian refugees.
While I stand by the information in that post, I decided to write a fresh one that includes newer organizations.
This post also includes some repeats from the last.
Many thanks to Lina Sergie Attar and Sima Diab for their help.
As I explained last time, I’ve highlighted organizations that are 501(c)(3) US-based nonprofits and receive high marks from GuideStar and Charity Navigator, with a couple of notable exceptions.
Suggestions are in no particular order: Save the Children is an internationally known organization (95.01/100 on Charity Navigator) and 501(c)(3) nonprofit that currently maintains a Syrian children in crisis fund.
Their program is unique in that they’re working to create “child-friendly spaces” to give children in refugee communities ” a safe space to play and get support while keeping their minds off the harsh reality they are facing.”
This is important in that psychological help is as needed in a crisis as medical and other care.
Guidestar also ranks Save the Children highly, with a Gold-level mark in the Exchange.
The Syrian American Medical Society Foundation received a Silver ranking from Guidestar‘s Exchange and is not yet ranked on Charity Navigator (which requires 7 years of IRS filings).
The organization has local programs in Lebanon and southern Syria.
Their own annual report states that only 1% of donations went toward overhead costs in 2013.
Basmeh & Zeitooneh is unranked because it’s not a US charity, but Syrian and Lebanese friends speak highly of it.
The aid group, based in Lebanon, works primarily with Syrian refugees in Lebanon, providing them with psychosocial support, food, clothing, and other needs.
You can donate to their current campaign here.
They also run a women’s workshop.
The International Rescue Committee is a highly-rated relief agency and 501(c)(3) nonprofit (95.36/100 from Charity Navigator) with incredibly efficient use of funds (93% goes to programming, only 3% toward fundraising).
You can’t specify that your donation goes toward Syrian refugees, but the organization has been doing a lot of great work in Syria and elsewhere.
And if you don’t have a lot of cash, the IRC has a toolkit for running a fundraiser for a given cause.
The IRC is not religiously affiliated and is independent from government.
The Middle East Children’s Alliance is a California-based nonprofit that works locally and internationally, and is currently running a campaign to provide urgent aid to Syrian refugees seeking shelter in Lebanon.
They score a 70.79/100 by Charity Navigator, due in part to high fundraising costs as well as their Bay Area location.
Their financials are a bit outdated onGuidestar.
Karam Foundation (Attar’s organization) is a Bronze-level GuideStar Exchange participant that seeks to help displaced Syrians in a number of innovative ways.
Karam is not ranked by Charity Navigator, which only ranks organizations with more than $1 million in revenue.
Relief and Reconciliation is a charity that runs a Peace Centre in northern Lebanon aiming to “help people of all faiths … to exit violence and to find a better future.”
As they are not a US nonprofit, they are unranked by Guidestar and Charity Navigator, but their About page boasts some impressive credentials!
Islamic Relief–also obviously an Islamic charity, and a 501(c)(3) nonprofit–is working to provide assistance to Syrian refugees in Lebanon, distributing food, clothing, and medicine.
As with the IRC, you cannot specify that your funds go to Syria, but can donate through their emergencies fund.
Their Charity Navigator ranking is 80.90/100 and their financials are up-to-date on GuideStar.
IR also offers ways to host local fundraisers.
Nifty NB for Muslims: They offer guidelines for giving Zakat using credit cards.
The International Red Cross/Red Crescent is, as far as I know, not a registered 501(c)(3) (though the American Red Cross is) and does not appear to have a Charity Navigator ranking.
Nevertheless, the Syrian Arab Red Crescent has been doing amazing work under dire circumstances.
Syrianorphans.org is a small organization that received 501(c)(3) status in 2013, after I wrote this post.
Though it does not yet have its financial reports up (GuideStar), the charity claims that it does not use any donations to support overhead costs, ensuring that donations are used entirely to support Syrians.
The Islamic charity Zakat Foundation (96.32/100 on Charity Navigator) runs campaigns to support refugees and those impacted by disasters around the world.
This post was originally published on Jillian C.York's blog.
Jillian is a volunteer representative for the Global Voices Board of Directors.
She is also EFF's Director for International Freedom of Expression and is based in Berlin, Germany.
Buy a Pen, Save a Life: A Syrian Father Inspires a Fundraising Cause · Global Voices
Abdul Halim Attar and his daughter Reem in the streets of Beirut.
Photographs from Indiegogo.
Social media is often regarded as a "powerful way of changing lives," and the #BuyPens trending hashtag on Twitter and Facebook over the last week is a case in point.
The campaign is a collaborative effort to help a Syrian refugee father, recently photographed selling a handful of pens in Beirut, Lebanon.
Abdul Halim Attar, a Palestinian Syrian from the Yarmouk camp in Damascus, is one of over a million Syrian refugees who have fled to Lebanon.
He is a single father with two children: Reem and Abdelillah.
Syrian father selling pens in the streets of #Beirut with his sleeping daughter #Lebanon #Syria pic.twitter.com/KOz4mjW1rd — Gissur Simonarson CN (@GissiSim) August 25, 2015
The story started with a tweet on August 25, when Gissur Simonarson (@GissiSim), an Icelandic activist, posted a photograph of Abdul Halim selling pens, trying to raise money for his two children.
The image triggered a tsunami of sympathy and compassion, with several thousand retweets and favorites.
Simonarson soon launched a Twitter account dedicated to Abdul Halim called @Buy_Pens, and set out to find him in person, in order to get him donations collected online.
Couple of things before I go to bed on #BuyPens project.
I'm working on getting a trusted connection in Beirut to meet him, once that — Gissur Simonarson CN (@GissiSim) August 25, 2015
3. on the ground to help get the money for him and deliver it to him.
Let's hope this all works out, and thank you for the support! — Gissur Simonarson CN (@GissiSim) August 25, 2015
Reporters and bloggers soon learned about the story and more people gradually learned about the #BuyPens movement.
Carol Malouf (@carolmalouf), representing the NGO @leb4refugees, set out to meet Abdul Halim on the ground to deliver the aid.
This photo of a refugee father & daughter selling pens exploded into a #BuyPens campaign that's raising thousands: https://t.co/KV2HCxsn4P — AJ+ (@ajplus) August 29, 2015
The campaign initially sought to raise $5,000 USD within 15 days.
However, it succeeded in gathering $168,884 USD, raised by 6,375 people in just five days, with donations coming from the US, UK, Saudi Arabia, and UAE, among other countries in Middle East and Europe.
Abdul Halim has reportedly said that he intends to use the money simply to raise and educate his children.
Those willing to contribute to the #BuyPens project still have eight days to make a donation.
"Help Abdul Halim and Reem start a new life" funding campaign.
Photo: Indiegogo.
Saeed Kamali Dehghan on Covering Iran for The Guardian · Global Voices
Saeed in Geneva this past year to cover the nuclear negotiations between the P5+1 and Iran.
PHOTO courtesy Saeed Kamali Dehghan, used with permission.This is the fourth in a series of interviews with Iranian journalists and writers who have dedicated their careers to communicating Iran's complexities and contradictions to those outside of the country.
Read the full series here.
With over 800 Iran-related bylines to his name, Saeed Kamali Dehghan is the first staff journalist at The Guardian dedicated to covering Iran, and one of the few Iranian nationals employed by a major English-language media institution.
Much of his reporting relates to Iran’s human rights violations, but as he said in a phone interview, “the common problem in many western media organisations is that they see Iran as black and white, and Iran is not like that.
It’s a spectrum, it’s a rainbow.”
So while Saeed covers issues such as Iran’s use of a fabricated Wikileaks cable to smear the UN special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Iran, another of his recent stories was a big feature about Iran’s tech start-ups and fashion gaining a foothold in Iran.
“We need more human stories about Iran,” he says.
Saeed's Guardian profile lists has over 700 articles.
Screenshot from The Guardian website.
With the current moderate administration now celebrated and lauded by many for changes such as the re-establishment of relations with western countries and bringing Iran closer to the prospect of an end to sanctions, it’s an interesting time for a journalist covering Iran.
Saeed believes the Rouhani government has done some good things in its two years in power, but has also failed to deliver on some of its promises.
“He delivered on one aspect in terms of nuclear deal, and inflation under sanctions,” he says.
“He hasn’t done enough on human rights and releasing those still under arrest. . . .
If the Rouhani government is doing a good job somewhere, we should say it; but if he’s doing a bad job somewhere else, we should also say that.”
He cites the example of a statement by the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran (ICHRI) a few weeks ago condemning the Rouhani government’s gagging the hardline media. “ was right to highlight that the government is trying to suppress the opponents of the nuclear deal,” Saeed says.
“Free speech is for all, even for those we don’t like.”
As an Iranian journalist covering Iran, Saeed acknowledges that can take some effort to suppress one’s feelings and beliefs.
“As an Iranian I have an emotional attachment to the country, but when I’m writing news I step back and try to be impartial.
But I’m allowed to express my opinion when I write op-eds, and I’ve also done that sort of thing.
I wrote about why Canada is getting it wrong on Iran, which led to the then Canadian foreign minister accusing me on Twitter of working for the Iranian authorities.
I’ve been attacked by some people who accuse me of working for the Iranians and by others who accuse me of working for the Brits.
I hope that’s a sign I’m doing my job right!”
One matter on which Saeed did not hesitate to take a stance on was his support for the recent nuclear deal between the P5+1 and Iran on July 14, 2015.
“I give credit to Obama for the peace we now have in the US-Iran relationship because of this nuclear deal.
I give credit to Rouhani and Zarif too.
But with a different president it might not have happened.
Obama said in his speech that just because some Iranians chant “death to America” it doesn’t mean all Iranians think so—and he is damn right.
He has never been to Iran, but he understands the complexity of Iranian politics in a way that many in the American press don’t.”
Saeed’s career as a professional journalist began in 2006, with what he considers a defining moment for a young engineering undergraduate who had never left his home country of Iran.
“One day in 2006 I picked up the phone and called the UK for the first time in my life.
I called the Guardian switchboard.
The Iranian daily Shargh was closed down by the government, and I wanted to know if I could write about it.
I was connected to their foreign desk, where I explained that I was an Iranian journalist.
They told me to email them my article.
“The next day I looked at the website to see if the article had been published, and it wasn’t.
My English at the time needed a great deal of editing, and I thought they didn’t like it and forgot about it.
A few weeks later, on an off-chance I discovered that it had in fact been published in print and online only a few days after my submission.
You can still find that first article under my profile on the Guardian website.”
While he didn’t start out with the intention of becoming a political writer, politics, he says, “quickly became the only thing I wanted to do.
It was everything that was happening around me.”
Between 2006 and 2009, Saeed wrote regularly for The Guardian, though as a contributor, not a staff member.
But in June 2009, when Iran erupted in protest at the widely contested president elections, Saeed’s career took off.
“As soon as the post-election unrest occurred, my byline started appearing on the front pages.
In one month alone I gave about 50 live interviews to international media about what was happening.
It was an unfortunate moment and I was sad to see all the arrests and crackdowns.
But as a young journalist writing about an extraordinary moment in my country it was momentous for my career.”
Saeed was subsequently co-producer on For Neda, a popular HBO documentary released in 2010 about the now famous murdered protester Neda Agha Soltan.
He left Iran around the period many journalists were facing persecution for their coverage of the protests, and moved to London, where he completed a Masters in journalism and joined The Guardian as a staff journalist.
Saeed's desk in The Guardian newsroom in London.
PHOTO: Saeed Kamali Dehghan, used with permission.
Asked why he chose to write for an English-language newspaper instead of a Persian one, Saeed cites The Guardian’s long history and ownership and accountability structure.
“It’s a newspaper with 194 years of history and doesn’t belong to anyone,” he says.
“It belongs to itself as a trust, it has a very unique structure and I’m very proud of that.
I’m happy to work for a newspaper that has such a long history of being truly independent.
Kings and prime ministers have come and gone in this country and the world and The Guardian has been there through it all.”
Saeed believes that more Iranian journalists should be writing for the English-language press, and taking that experience back home.
“Yes, we have newspapers like Etelaat which has been around for 80 years, and Kayhan, with a similarly long history.
But influenced by the country's political events, they have gone through significant changes and lost their consistency.
There’s never been a consistency in their work like we see in the west at The Guardian or the New York Times or the New Yorker.
And from the way some Iranian officials and media talk about the Guardian ias if it's a government newspaper, it’s clear that some of them don’t know that there are newspapers in the world that have been able to maintain their independence for a long period of time.”
Saeed nevertheless sees some positive developments in the Iranian media in recent times, such as Iranian officials writing for the foreign press. “Rouhani wrote for the Washington Post, Zarif recently wrote for The Guardian.
Iranian officials are beginning to interact more with the foreign press and that sort of thing will be good for Iran.”
Iran, he says, is also allowing more foreign press into the country, permitting foreign writers to experience Iran first-hand, which should result in more accurate and nuanced portrayals of the country.
“I looked at the editorials written by the foreign press in the wake of the nuclear deal, and my observation was that those newspapers who have a physical presence in Iran were largely supportive of the agreement,” Saeed says.
“Those who haven’t, were not.
By not allowing journalists in easily Iran is doing itself a disservice.”
Hungarian Journalist Kicking Syrian Refugees Rouses Disapproval and Outrage Worldwide · Global Voices
Petra Laszlo, the woman behind this deplorable incident Image from RVF website with CC BY-NC 4.0 license
Hungarian journalist Petra Laszlo has become one of the most hated people on social media, following the release of a video showing her tripping up and kicking several Syrian refugees who were running away from the police in Röszke, Hungary.
The refugee crisis, to put it gently, has taken Europeans by surprise.
And, while politicians are lost in never-ending debates without coming to any agreements, citizens are divided.
Many citizens support the efforts that are being made to grant asylum to families now fleeing the war and some are even offering their own homes to shelter them.
Many others, however, remain suspicious and see this "invasion" as a threat to their societies, their cultures, and their religions.
Conservative governments in some European countries have also encouraged various phobias about refugees, including Hungarian President Viktor Orbán, who recently accused Muslim refugees of endangering Christianity in Europe.
Syrian refugees are arriving in Europe from Turkey via the "Balkan route," which passes through Greece, Macedonia, and Serbia.
Upon entering Hungary, they are held in the Röszke refugee camp, which is tightly guarded by the Hungarian police.
The majority of refugees hope to reach Germany, not only because it is the country with the most opportunities in Europe, but also because many of them have family or friends there already.
Many on their way to Germany now fear the application of the Dublin Regulation, which forces refugees to ask for asylum in whatever European country they first arrive.
Although Germany has agreed to suspend the application of this protocol, the refugees don't trust the authorities and are trying to reach Germany as quickly as possible, without being identified en route.
Journalist Petra Laszlo found herself filming one of these mass refugee arrivals, when her controversial actions were caught on video. The footage went viral within a few hours of being recorded.
In the video, Laszlo can clearly be seen kicking two children who were running with their parent.
Later, she trips up a refugee carrying a child in his arms, causing him to drop the child:
Petra Laszlo, who works for the TV N1 news channel, has connections with the far-right and is a supporter of the Hungarian nationalist party, Jobbik.
The television network fired Laszlo immediately after the video was released online.
Internet users, meanwhile, have supplied many more reactions, expressing their outrage from all over the world:
From Turkey, Eyüp Gökhan Özekin writes:
#PetraLaszlo What an inhumane, repulsive "woman"(!) you are.
I'm saddened to share my planet with you.
I hope you pay for what you have done.
In Brussels, Marcel Sel reminds Laszlo of Hungary's own turbulent history:
Remember, #PetraLaszlo, your parents could have been among these Hungarian refugees. #1956 https://t.co/IUOS20dG59 — Marcel Sel (@marcelsel) September 8, 2015
The popular Spanish Twitter user Señorita Puri jokes sarcastically about the other people in the news: Journalist Petra László fired for attacking Syrian refugees.
In Greece, dimbit is emphatic: I wish you a slow and painful death #PetraLászló — dimbit (@dimbit) September 8, 2015
The Hungarian journalist Szabolcs Panyi puts a face to the man that dropped his child who was in his arms, thanks to Laszio:
The man kicked by #PetraLaszlo.
Turned out he was tortured under Assad & escaped from ISIS. http://t.co/AqYgEGDZDg pic.twitter.com/10rxonkT0i.
On Facebook, the tone wasn't any less aggressive.
Numerous posts published about the incident by news websites on social network pages received thousands of angry comments:
The EU will seriously have to explain to these countries of the old Eastern bloc that in the West we have values.
I think that in Hungary and Poland, for example, they don't accept any refugees, but they gladly accept European subsidies.
From today onwards, it should be refugees as well as subsidies or no refugees no subsidies.
Laszlo has apologized in an open letter.
The Happiest Countries in the World Are All in Latin America · Global Voices
The happiest (and least happy) countries in the world, ranked http://t.co/4EccwDNBp7 — Quartz (@qz) August 27, 2015
Gallup interviewed 150,000 adults in 148 countries, asking such questions as, "Did you smile or laugh yesterday?" and "Did you learn or do something interesting yesterday?" to build a positive-experience index.
Surprisingly, the leading countries in terms of positive emotions were all in Latin America, from Paraguay to Nicaragua, according to Quartz.
The survey used a scale from 0 to 100 and found that the world’s positive-experience index average for 2014 was 71/100—"the same as 2013, and just about what it’s been since 2006."
The country with the least positive emotional score was Sudan (47/100).
Happiness levels are also low in Tunisia, Serbia, Turkey, and others, apparently thanks to war and other forms of political instability.
In Bolivia and El Salvador, for example, 59 perecnt of respondents replied “yes” to all of the questions about both positive and negative emotions, which gives these nations particularly high “emotional” scores.
Africans Take Jabs at One Another With #IfAfricaWasABar Hashtag · Global Voices
A public drinking place in Joe Slovo Park, Cape Town, South Africa.
Creative Commons photo uploaded by Wikipedia user Discott.
There are those days when Africans on Twitter decide to pick on each other.
A random tweet started by Siyanda- Panda, a writer from Botswana, sparked this hilarious #IfAfricaWasABar hashtag.
Siyanda asked:
If Africa was a bar, what would your country be drinking/doing? — Siyanda-Panda (@SiyandaWrites) July 27, 2015
Nigeria and Kenya seemed to have their fair share:
#IfAfricaWasABar Kenya would be that guy who takes photos with other people's drinks — Mayor_wa_kashagama (@Norman_Kamuntu) July 27, 2015
#IfAfricaWasABar Kenya would the guy who owns the bar,the cabs outside,the butchery next door and the chemist across the road. — Kenyan Facts (@KResearcher) July 27, 2015
#IfAfricaWasABar ...Nigeria would be that guy that's old enough to be in the bar but he has a fake ID saying he's 19 — Mr Wonderful (@NickkTitan) July 27, 2015
#IfAfricaWasABar Nigeria would be the fat rich dude trying to dance with every girl. — WILL SESSIONS (@OfficialBafmiQ) July 27, 2015
#IfAfricaWasABar Nigeria would be that noisy guy who is always looking for attention. — Ikua Macharia (@Di_Macharia) July 27, 2015
#IfAfricaWasABar the dee-jay would be Nigerian — tolu ogunlesi (@toluogunlesi) July 27, 2015
Madagascar would be the quiet one, according to @Nanjala1:
#IfAfricaWasABar Madagascar would be the girl who came alone, had a drink and a dance, and left before anyone noticed. — Nanjala Nyabola (@Nanjala1) July 27, 2015
Zimbabwe would be stuck in the past, @Captain_FBS tweeted:
#IfAfricaWasABar Zimbabwe would be that guy who annoys everyone about "back in the day when I used to have money" — Goddy (@Captain_FBS) July 27, 2015
Tanzania was the butt of a few jokes:
#IfAfricaWasABar ...Tanzania would be that group of girls that dont get approached all night so they claim it was a "Girls Night Out" anyway — Mr Wonderful (@NickkTitan) July 27, 2015
#IfAfricaWasAbar Tanzania would be that guy whose English takes a walk when he gets drunk — Elektrolyte (@julimuffn) July 27, 2015
Ethiopia wouldn't have to worry about the bill, @Chrisposure joked:
#IfAfricaWasABar all the guys would be sending over drinks to Ethiopia. — Topher (@Chrisposure) July 27, 2015
Even Boko Haram would be at the bar:
#IfAfricaWasABar #BokoHaram would turn up for Ladies night like... pic.twitter.com/6kgMI5Zai1 — Ryan Cummings (@Pol_Sec_Analyst) July 27, 2015
US, China and Europe were also dragged into the tweef:
#IfAfricaWasABar Europe and China would be very very drunk.... — Ryan Cummings (@Pol_Sec_Analyst) July 27, 2015
#IfAfricaWasABar in an expensive hotel, there would be A LOT of sleazy old white men creeping the place out. — AFRICA IS A COUNTRY (@AfricasaCountry) July 27, 2015
#ifafricawasabar the U.S. & Europe would be lecturing everyone about drinking too much, all the while topping up their glasses. — samira sawlani (@samirasawlani) July 27, 2015
Peaceful Dissent Becomes Religious Sin as Iran’s Hardliners Reassert Their Power · Global Voices
The Supreme Leader’s chief of staff Mohammadi Golpayegani (right): “Opposing the Islamic is certainly the greatest wrong and if anyone, in any cloth or position, opposes it, he has committed the worst vice because the pure blood of thousands of youth has been shed to establish this state.”
Image from ICHRI.This post first appeared on iranhumanrights.org and is published here in collaboration with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran. Freedom of expression and the right to peaceful dissent, long under attack in the Islamic Republic, have come under increased pressure over the last two years.
Hardliners, anxious to reaffirm their control over the domestic sphere in the face of the centrist Hassan Rouhani’s huge electoral win in 2013, have launched concerted crackdowns, jailing journalists, shuttering publications, blocking social media, and sentencing peaceful activists to long prison terms.
Increasingly, hardliners are using a new weapon in the arsenal of repression: religion.
While prosecutions of activists have typically been carried out under broad national security-related charges, political dissent is more and more being portrayed by officials of the Islamic Republic as a religious violation.
The equation of dissent with sin is part of a broader attack in which the right to peaceful dissent, ostensibly guaranteed in the Iranian constitution (as well as in the international covenants to which Iran has freely joined) is effectively denied and those who engage in it are prosecuted by judicial officials under far more serious charges.
“Corruption on Earth,” for example, carries a possible death penalty.
“To oppose the state is the greatest sin,” said Mohammadi Golpayegani, chief of staff to Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, to a group of clerics and seminary students in Gilan Province on June 13, 2015.
Golpayegani described the Islamic Republic as the “greatest good of our time” and, as reported by ISNA (the Iranian Students News Agency) added, “Opposing the Islamic is certainly the greatest wrong and if anyone, in any cloth or position, opposes it, he has committed the worst vice because the pure blood of thousands of youth has been shed to establish this state.”
In his eyes, any opposition to the Islamic Republic, in word or deed, or any questioning of its infallibility, constitutes a grave offense.
Under this line of thinking, financial corruption is considered a lesser crime than women who flout ultraconservative rules on public attire because economic crimes are not an overt political challenge to the state.
A woman’s lack of adherence to “proper” hijab, however, is seen as a direct challenge to the regime’s legitimacy.
In the words of Ayatollah Sobhani, “The hijab is a symbol of the Islamic Republic and those who don’t observe it are sticking their tongue at it.
Profiteers, on the other hand, don’t care about the state.”
Such comments are not new.
On May 2, Mohammadi Golpayegani quoted the Supreme Leader as saying, “Protecting the Islamic Republic is the greatest good and opposing it is the greatest wrong.”
Golpayegani added, “Some think that promoting virtue or preventing vice is only limited to dealing with women in the streets with poor hijab.
But we must be aware that the greatest vice is opposing the Islamic regime.”
In his speech on the occasion of the Iranian New Year, Supreme Leader Khamenei stated his view clearly: “The greatest good is to establish and preserve an Islamic state… while by contrast, moral corruption is wrong, helping the enemies of Islam is wrong, weakening the Islamic state is wrong.”
Going beyond verbal exhortations, the Supreme Leader issued a fatwa, or religious decree, forbidding people from publicly exposing injustice by officials of the Islamic Republic.
In reply to a question from one of his religious followers on whether it would be appropriate to publicly reveal injustice or treason by government officials, Khamenei wrote: “It is not a problem to report injustice or treason to officials and government institutions so that they can be properly pursued and investigated… but revealing them to the people is forbidden because it creates mischief and corruption, and weakens the Islamic government.”
Equating political opposition with religious sin has had profound consequences for the lives of those who have questioned the dictates of the government: political opponents have been charged and sentenced to punishments of biblical proportions, with many spending long years behind bars and some facing the death penalty.
Officials often accuse government critics of opposing the country’s system of velayat-e faqih (Guardianship of the Islamic Jurist, the ideology formulated by the Islamic Republic’s founder, Ayatollah Khomeini, which states that an Islamist jurist, or Supreme Leader, must provide guardianship over the government to ensure its compliance with Islamic law).
As a result, such critics are accused of challenging the very foundations of religion.
This view is not shared by the majority within the Shia religious establishment.
Most Shia clerics, in fact, do not accept the concept of velayat-e faqih.
Indeed, the Islamic Republic is imposing the view of its ruling class and suppressing the plurality of views in Shia religious thought.
Ayatollah Mohammad Yazdi, however, who is the current head of the Islamic Republic’s Council of Guardians, the body charged with ensuring that all political candidates and laws conform to Islam and the Islamic Republic’s constitution, has assured all that the Supreme Leader can do no wrong: “The Supreme Leader never makes mistakes in his decisions,” Yazdi said in a speech in 2011.
“That’s because if is thinking of making a decision that’s 100 percent harmful to the Islamic nation, the Hidden Imam has a responsibility to advise him against it.”
These views have resulted in the belief that opposing velayat-e faqih is equal to opposing absolute Truth itself.
As stated by Yazdi, “Opposing velayat-e faqih is the same as opposing the Imams and it is on the level as questioning God’s singular authority.”
In such a system where dissenters are not only enemies of the state, they are enemies of God, there is no possibility of acceptable peaceful opposition, the hallmark of democratic governance.
New Mobile App Noema Wants to Capture the 'Underutilized' Power of Human Voice · Global Voices
Noema
Asad Jamal Malik, a 19-year-old Pakistani, and Lars Laichter from Czech Republic have created an iOS app that will allow users to share interesting thoughts, ideas and stories in one-minute audio recordings.
Moderators on the app will then select the most thought-provoking audios daily and create a curated stream of thoughts for users.
Called Noema, it's set to launch on Friday, 25 September 2015.
The idea for the app began when Asad, who is from Khewra, Punjab, Pakistan, received a two-year scholarship from United World Colleges to study in the Netherlands.
There, Asad was one of the founding members of the school's Social Entrepreneurship Incubator.
Laichter was his roommate.
Together, they came up with the concept for Noema, but lacked the necessary skills.
Once back in Pakistan, Asad rented a small apartment in Lahore and began to teach himself how to build the app, working day and night on it.
Now, Asad has been awarded a full scholarship at Bennington College in Vermont, US, in recognition of his entrepreneurial ability.
Noema
Global Voices spoke with Asad J. Malik about his experience creating Noema.
Global Voices (GV): You have been working hard for a whole year toward the launch of Noema.
How do you feel now that is finally happening?
Asad Jamal Malik (AJM): Well, in all honesty, it’s a mixture of a lot of feelings.
We’ve been working on Noema for over a year now.
This is the most I’ve worked on a single project ever.
Lars and I didn’t have the complete skillset to pull off our idea when we started.
A lot of this year has been spent learning the skills and tools necessary to create the product.
For almost six months I had locked myself in a tiny rented apartment in Lahore so I could learn the Objective C programming language in complete isolation.
There’ve been concepts, iterations, experiments and multiple midnight epiphanies when pumping with emotion we scraped all our work to start again.
By now we’ve been able to finally give life to our vision in some form.
It feels like a real accomplishment of a personal goal to be able to see Noema approved on the AppStore.
I’ve learnt a tremendous amount on the way and it will contribute to who I am forever.
GV: You have lived part of your young adult life on an international stage, representing Pakistan.
What did you take away from that experience?
AJM: I was awarded a scholarship for the United World Colleges in 2012 when I was 16.
UWC is a group of 15 high schools across the globe that bring people from hundreds of different countries together to educate them for a more peaceful future.
I was selected for the school in Maastricht, the Netherlands as the representative of Pakistan.
Spending two magical years in a beautiful place with some of the brightest minds from over 90 different nationalities was a life-changing experience which I will always owe a lot to.
It was, in no way, perfect but what you learn from an environment so culturally diverse is that regardless of our different backgrounds, human beings have fundamental similarities.
This place provided me with some once-in-a-lifetime opportunities like giving a talk in an event where the King of the Netherlands was the chief guest.
This is also where I met my co-founder Lars Laichter.
Living and working with him for so long has been an unparalleled experience which wouldn’t otherwise be possible.
For me the walls of nationalism only fell down over the years and I do not consider myself a representative of Pakistan anymore.
My horizons have only expanded and mostly when I talk about “us” I’m referring to the human race.
GV: You put formal education on hold to develop skills to build Noema.
Now that you have returned to the classroom, how do you feel about the experience?
AJM: The reason I walked out of formal education for a year was because I felt I could learn a lot more that way.
Matriculation in Pakistan was not the most pleasant of experiences.
Rote learning and memorization of facts was the standard.
Even though I was very lucky to go to a school where teachers cared and questions were encouraged, I really wanted more.
I found my way to the Netherlands looking for just that but was only disappointed to find that even arguably the best high school system in the world (International Baccalaureate) was not dynamic enough.
All my life I learnt more outside the classroom than in it.
I do not have a single doubt in my mind that this past year out of the education system was the most valuable learning experience of my life so far.
In terms of real life experience, travel, reputation, skillset, mental state, I had never been better.
Now I’m jumping right in again.
I’ve received a scholarship from a prestigious institute, Bennington College (ranked 4th most entrepreneurial American college by Forbes) and have recently started term with a good amount of excitement.
The college is known for taking a very different approach to education as students are given the liberty to design their own courses.
I plan on making good use of all the resources this place has to offer and only time will tell if my opinions about going to college change.
GV: What should the world expect from Noema?
AJM: With Noema we’re trying to create a community interested in using a more intimate way to communicate intellectually valuable content online.
We want to provide an easily accessible platform for people to share interesting ideas.
At the same time we imagine that it would give people an effortless and entertaining way to enhance their knowledge.
At the core of Noema sits the power of human voice.
We believe that voice and oral language are some of the richest mediums of expression known to humans.
Historically they’ve been underutilised in online spaces because of data limitations.
The world is changing now and Internet speeds increasingly allow for easier audio streaming.
We want more people to get comfortable with their voice because communicating ideas, thoughts and stories through your own voice is a very impactful experience.
Listening to someone from another part of the world talk about her experiences and most valued thoughts is incredibly awe-inducing.
The big idea, however, is that as the next billion people move to the Internet, voice would play a crucial role.
A lot of these people come from an illiterate background where reading and writing is not common.
They come from cultures where writing is not well established but very rich oral tradition exists.
We would hope that Noema will allow them to share the knowledge that’s been passing on orally from one generation to another to all of us.
GV: What are your expectations for the app?
AJM: The future is always incredibly exciting.
I’m in a completely new place right now and am currently exploring options for the direction I want things to take.
We have some very interesting ideas for the future of Noema once the wheels are in spin.
Technology and the exponential growth of it has become a major interest of mine.
I’m currently looking into Cyborg Anthropology, the study of the interaction of humans and technology, and already studying things like the philosophy of privacy in university.
The future for our kind is exciting and the possibilities are endless.
I can’t wait to play my role in shaping the direction things take.
You can also expect a lot more products from me which aim at nothing less than altering the human condition.
But for now we’re very excited to launch our little paper boat called Noema onto the turbulent waters.
GV: Do you have any plans to release versions of the app for different mobile phone opearting systems, such as Android, Blackberry, Windows, etc.?
AJM: We are among a huge number of apps which carry on the tradition of launching on iOS first.
There are multiple technical and non technical reasons.
Android is too fragmented and open for a first time launch.
Getting approved on the Apple Appstore adds credibility to the app because its a tough process.
Virtually anything can be uploaded on the Google Play Store.
Having said that, we will most certainly start working on an Android App once the iOS app takes off and finds its place on the market. we do not have plans for Blackberry and Windows.
GV: How do you plan to deal with multiple languages on the Noema app?
Or is it designed to be only English-speaking?
AJM: Noema, at the start will cater to the English-speaking , since it's the easiest place to start for us.
However, we will launch language specific functionality as soon as there is enough content and traction.
This would mean that the user will tell Noema all the language he/she speaks and the experience will be customised according to that.
We would also want to experiment with translations for thoughts we find deeply engaging.
Iran's Evin Prison to Become a Park · Global Voices
Cartoonist Touka Neyestani’s take on the news.
Image produced for ICHRI, and used with permission.
This post first appeared on iranhumanrights.org and is published here in collaboration with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
Tehran Mayor Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf said last week that the Tehran Municipality is prepared to enter negotiations with the Iranian Judiciary to convert the Evin Prison complex in northwestern Tehran into a public park.
For decades, the notorious Evin Prison has been one of the primary facilities where Iranian political prisoners have been detained, interrogated, tortured, and executed.
Some of the worst testimonies about torture and forced confessions at Evin are related to at least three separate wards Iran’s Intelligence Ministry and the IRGC operate within the complex, unmonitored by the Iranian Judiciary.
An Amazon Tribe's 500-Page Traditional-Medicine Encyclopaedia · Global Voices
The Matsés peoples of Brazil and Peru—have created a 500-page encyclopedia of their traditional medicine! http://t.co/4t9hh6KIQr — Moonching Wu (@SunMoonLake99) July 4, 2015
The Amazon Rainforest supports millions of plants that could be vital ingredients in still-undiscovered medications.
For that reason, many pharmaceutical companies and even the US government are currently funding projects to study the indigenous plant knowledge of native shamans and healers in the area, and develop new drugs.
The Matsés people, who live in Peru and Brazil, have created a health encyclopedia more than 500 pages long cataloging their traditional medicinal practices, preserving ancestral knowledge for younger generations.
The majority of the shamans are old and without apprentices. So when they die a vast knowledge also disappears.
But, in order to avoid bio-piracy, this information remains with the Matsés people; it is only accessible in the native tongue and is only distributed within the tribe’s villages.
Protective measures also include: "no scientific names are used to identify local plant species, and no plants will be pictured in detail, so as not to be identifiable to outsiders."
"The marks the first time shamans of an Amazonian tribe have created a full and complete transcription of their medicinal knowledge written in their own language and words,” Christopher Herndon, president and co-founder of Acaté, told Mongabay in an interview.
According to Pachamama Alliance, a global community focused on creating a sustainable future, the health and wellbeing of the Western world, often comes at a high price for indigenous peoples.
As pharmaceutical companies have realized that their research generates better outcomes if they co-operate with indigenous people and tap into their wisdom, rainforest tribes are at risk of losing control over their resources.
Once the pharmaceutical companies have developed the drug, they file patents claiming exclusive rights to the medical use of the plant – hence limiting or even denying access to the plants that indigenous peoples have relied upon for centuries.
That's why in 2010, the tenth Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity adopted the Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit-Sharing. It specifically addresses the issue of bioprospecting and the rights of indigenous peoples to access to forest resources, intellectual property, and adequate compensation.
Acaté, a San-Francisco-based non-profit, assisted the five shamans who compiled the encyclopaedia.
In the encyclopaedia, each entry is categorized by a disease name and features explanations of how to recognise the disease according to symptoms, understand its root causes and know how to prepare medicine from specific plants to use as treatment.
The entries also make readers aware of alternative therapeutic options.
The idea behind the project is to make the tribes less dependent on conventional doctors and western drugs, while maintaining their self-sufficiency.
Jason Rezaian’s Lawyer Prevented from Responding to Iranian Prosecutor’s Accusations · Global Voices
Jason's wife Yeganeh Salehi and mother Mary Rezaian at the courthouse.
Image from ICHRI and used with permission.
This post first appeared on iranhumanrights.org and is published here in collaboration with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
The blatant denial of due process on display on the last day of Jason Rezaian’s trial on August 10, 2015, when his lawyer was not allowed to present arguments in response to the prosecutor, confirms the political and pre-ordained nature of the prosecution of the Washington Post reporter, who has spent the last year behind bars in Iran.
“During Monday’s session I presented an oral defense of my client but there was no opportunity for me to respond after the prosecutor’s representative spoke.
I submitted my written response to the court,” Rezaian’s lawyer, Leila Ahsan, told ISNA (the Iranian Students News Agency).
One reporter told the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran (ICHRI) that Rezaian’s mother informed the reporters no one was able to interview Jason’s wife, Yeganeh Salehi, because she had been banned from speaking to the media.
Judge Salavati, of Branch 15 of the Revolutionary Court, presided over Rezaian’s case.
Salavati has a long history of close cooperation with the intelligence arm of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards, and is routinely handpicked by the judiciary to preside over political cases, reportedly due to the notoriously harsh sentences he hands down.
Salavati’s sharp curtailment of the work of the defense, and his refusal to allow Rezaian’s wife and mother to witness the closed-door proceedings is yet another indication of the impartiality of the judicial process and the political nature of the prosecution of Rezaian.
Throughout his time in prison in Iran, Rezaian has been consistently denied any semblance of due process.
He was arrested and held for months without being informed of the charges filed against him, he was denied a choice of counsel, and his counsel was not allowed to provide full and effective representation during his trial.
A former activist who was previously tried by Judge Salavati in connection with the state crackdown on peaceful protestors that followed the disputed 2009 presidential election told the ICHRI, “During my trial the prosecutor said a lot of things that were untrue but when it was my lawyer’s turn to speak, Judge Salavati cut him off after only a few minutes….That’s when I realized that trying to present a defense through my lawyer was meaningless and I was convinced the judge knew what his verdict was going to be before the trial began.”
Fars News Agency, the Vatan newspaper, and other media outlets with ties to Iran’s Revolutionary Guards and other hardline factions accused Rezaian of espionage and national security crimes months before the start of his trial—unsubstantiated accusations that became a central part of the prosecutor’s case.
The court’s decision on the charges against Rezaian, which include “espionage” and “cooperation with enemy states,” is expected in a week, his lawyer Leila Ahsan told ISNA.
Referring to the recent nuclear agreement and the potential for improved relations between Iran and Western governments, Rezaian’s mother expressed hope that her son would be released soon.
“Jason was a reporter like you and his sources were the same as yours,” Mary Rezaian was quoted by ISNA.
“Now is the time for Iran’s senior leaders to end this ‘judicial process,’ with its sick brew of farce and tragedy.
Jason and his wife, Yeganeh, who has been out on bail, deserve to be exonerated and to be given back their freedom and lives,” Martin Baron, executive editor of The Washington Post, said in a statement on August 10, 2015. Jason Rezaian, 38, holds dual Iranian and US citizenship, and has been the Washington Post correspondent in Tehran since 2012.
Global Voices Global Voices Radio image by Kevin Rothrock
Beginning September 1, Global Voices Radio will be streaming around the clock.
For 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, listeners can enjoy programming from around the globe, including world music, conversations about news events, and original content from our podcast partners across all of the different time zones.
Through our Airtime Pro platform, you can access our Internet radio station from a web browser or mobile device.
Please visit our GV Radio landing page to see what is currently playing in your time zone and what programming is scheduled for that day.
You can also listen using the player widget embedded in this post.
We will continue to feature content produced by our Global Voices community, such as our award-winning GV podcast, audio from select sessions from our recent summit, and audio from our GV Face conversation series.
Partner content mentioned in previous GV Radio posts will also be highlighted, such as digital storytelling from Radio Ambulante, feature podcasts from Loa, and world music curated by GV community members in Mexico and Ghana, and much more.
This week we welcome two new podcast partners: Spotlight and Hyperlink.
Spotlight
Created by Global Voices community member Jakub Górnicki, the Spotlight podcast features interviews and profiles about current events taking place around the world, with a special focus on Eastern Europe.
This is Spotlight – discussing society and technology.
The show brings out the people and ideas changing our world and aims to help you understand it better.
Jakub Górnicki hosts travel and report blog Podróżniccy’s new podcast – Spotlight.
Hyperlink
As part of the Hyperstage platform, the Hyperlink podcast is an Arabic-language program that focuses on technology and created by Beshr Kayali (@beshr) and Saleh (@mskayyali).
Hyperstage is a digital platform that covers the technology, society, and culture news besides updates on science and arts.
The website is attempting to focus on the latest world technology, views of tech professionals, books reviews, and opinion posts written by Hyperstage team.
jQuery(document).ready(function($) { $("#headerLiveHolder").airtimeLiveInfo({ sourceDomain: "http://gvoices.airtime.pro", updatePeriod: 20 //seconds }); $("#onAirToday").airtimeShowSchedule({ sourceDomain: "http://gvoices.airtime.pro", updatePeriod: 5, //seconds showLimit: 10 }); $("#scheduleTabs").airtimeWeekSchedule({ sourceDomain:"http://gvoices.airtime.pro", updatePeriod: 600 //seconds }); var d = new Date().getDay(); $("#scheduleTabs").tabs({selected: d === 0 ? 6 : d-1, fx: { opacity: "toggle" }}); });
Iran Sentences Atena Faraghdani to 12.5 Years for Cartoons · Global Voices
Atena Farghadani stands trial on Tuesday, May 18, for charges that include insulting members of parliament and spreading propaganda against the government.
Photo: Free Atena's Facebook page.
This post first appeared on iranhumanrights.org and is published here in collaboration with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
A Revolutionary Court in Tehran has sentenced artist and civil rights activist Atena Faraghdani to 12.5 years in prison for drawings and content critical of the government that the young activist posted on her Facebook page.
Faraghdani’s lawyer, Mohammad Moghimi, stated in an interview with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran that the sentence should be reduced to 7.5 years, under Article 134 of the country's New Islamic Penal Code.
This article stipulates that sentencing will be limited to the maximum punishment for the crime with the heaviest sentence when an individual faces multiple charges.
Moghimi noted that the ruling issued by the judge stated that Article 134 should be “considered.”
The lawyer added that a 7.5-year prison sentence was “the maximum punishment for the charge of ‘assembly and collusion against national security’” (the severest of the charges against her).
“The peaceful expression of dissent remains a red line in Iran,” said Hadi Ghaemi, Executive Director of the Campaign.
“Cross it and you risk prison time.”
Ghaemi added that the authorities particularly fear social media networks, which have become hugely popular in Iran, especially among the young.
Officials have clamped down especially hard on any online content deemed even remotely critical of state policies.
“The court ruling was served to her and myself today .
We have 20 days to appeal, and we hope this ruling will be overturned by the Appeals Court,” said Moghimi, Faraghdani’s lawyer.
The activist’s charges are “assembly and collusion against national security,” “propaganda against the state,” and “insulting the Supreme Leader, the President, Members of the Parliament, and the IRGC Ward 2-A agents ."
Following five months inside Gharchak and Evin Prisons, Faraghdani was tried at Branch 15 of the Tehran Revolutionary Court under Judge Salavati, a notorious judge who is consistently handpicked to preside over “national security” cases that security and intelligence organizations bring against political and civil activists, because of the harsh and maximum sentences he imposes.
Salavati is the judge presiding over the trial of the Washington Post reporter Jason Rezaian.
Moghimi noted that one of the pieces of evidence used against his client was the fact that she shared on her Facebook page a cartoon depicting members of the Iranian Parliament as animals.
Other evidence included Faraghdani’s critical writings, also published on Facebook, and her visits to the families of political prisoners and protesters who were killed at the Kharizak Police Detention Center in 2009, in the aftermath of Iran's disputed presidential election.
“According to our laws, activities on social networks on the Internet are not recognized as crimes.
In democratic countries, drawing cartoons to criticize those in power is an accepted practice.
My client is an artist who expresses her thoughts through drawing cartoons, and she meant to criticize those in power,” Mohammad Moghimi told the Campaign.
“Additionally, Article 8 of the Iranian Constitution expresses that it is upon everyone to ‘prevent vice and promote virtue,’ and this is a two-way responsibility both the nation and the state have vis-à-vis each other.
Expressing criticism is also a part of freedom of opinion and expression,” Moghimi said.
After the video was published, Faraghdani was summoned to Branch 15 of Tehran Revolutionary Court on January 10, 2015, arrested, and transferred to Gharchak Prison in Varamin, outside Tehran.
Atena Faraghdani embarked on a hunger strike to protest her transfer to the deplorable Gharchak Prison, where political prisoners are not separated from hardened criminals, in violation of the principle of the separation of prisoners.
After her health deteriorated severely and she was transferred to a hospital on February 26, 2015, judicial authorities ordered her transfer back to Evin Prison on March 2, where she has been ever since.
Former TV Producer Mostafa Azizi Sentenced to Eight Years in Prison in Iran · Global Voices
Photo of Mostafa Azizi shared by the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, and used with permission.
Branch 15 of Tehran Revolutionary Court has sentenced Mostafa Azizi, a former Iranian television writer and producer imprisoned since February 1, 2015, to eight years in prison, according to his son, who spoke with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
Arash Azizi told the Campaign that his father has appealed the decision.
Mostafa Azizi was sentenced June 1 to five years in prison for “assembly and collusion against national security,” two years for “insulting the Supreme Leader,” and one year for “propaganda against the state.”
Arash Azizi also told the Campaign that his father’s lawyer has asked the court for his release on bail until the appeals court announces its final decision. “We hope they grant this request and that my father is released soon.
We also hope that his verdict will be overruled by the appeals court,” he said.
Mostafa Azizi, 53, was formerly a writer and producer of television programs in Iran.
He and his family emigrated to Canada in 2008.
He returned to Iran in December 2014 to be close to his ailing father.
Security agents arrested him on January 2, 2015, and transferred him to the IRGC’s Ward 2-A at Evin Prison, where he stayed under interrogation for a year.
He was then transferred to Ward 8 of Evin Prison, where he remains.
He suffers from diabetes, heart disease, and rheumatism.
A source close to him told the Campaign in April 2015 that if he had thought he would be arrested, he would have never returned to Iran. “He is an artist, not a political activist.
He is an artist who wrote his analysis of the social and political situation in places like his Facebook page, but he did not intend to break the law or insult anyone.”
Dozens of Iranian expatriates who have traveled to Iran, following assurances by President Hassan Rouhani regarding their safe passage, have been arrested, interrogated, prevented from leaving by having their passports confiscated, and, in many instances, imprisoned upon their return, due to the peaceful expression of views or lifestyles with which the government does not agree.
Singapore: Is it a city or country? · Global Voices Singapore. License: CC0 Public Domain
Is Singapore a city or a country?
This question seems silly since Singapore is globally recognized as an independent state.
But for Singapore Law Minister K. Shanmugam, Singapore should be treated as a city.
This remark triggered a debate in the blogosphere.
In his lecture during a meeting of the New York State Bar Association International Section, Shanmugam observed that many people are criticizing the dominance of a single party in Singapore politics because they are comparing Singapore with other countries.
He insisted that Singapore should be judged as a city.
"…nobody questions whether there is a democracy in New York....
This is where most people make a mistake.
I have tried to explain that we are different.
We are a city.
We are not a country."
Cavalierio accused the Law Minister of “twisting logic” to justify authoritarian rule in Singapore:
And now, for all our efforts and sacrifices put into creating a precious piece of country, we are told that we are not a country after all.
It sounded vulgar; sounded like a shirking of responsibility, like a dereliction of duty.
Singapore, if you are not my country, who is?
Shanmugam’s motive was less lofty: he was arguing that Singapore’s political system shouldn’t be measured against the yardsticks of ‘a normal country’, where Singapore would invariably appear undemocratic.
Instead, he argued, Singapore should be compared to ‘cities’ like Chicago, San Fransisco, and New York City – cities that have enduring one-party rule.
Cities that are democratic.
Sometimes when we reach into the crux of the matter, we find that it is the old chestnut again.
The old self-serving chestnut of authoritarian rulers pretending to be a democracy, twisting logic to suit one’s power.
So in the end, the answers that Shanmugam provided to his American guests last week, about our press, our judiciary, our political system, were non-answers really.
Pertinent questions explained away in a camouflage of rational non-responses.
Rachel Zeng wants Shanmugam to elaborate his point since she couldn’t understand that line of thinking
Personally, I find that a little difficult to swallow.
If Singapore is not a country but a city, then which country is our city part of….
Well, I don’t get it.
I will really appreciate it if our dear K Shanmugam will kindly enlighten us here since he has been paid so much to play a part in the governing of Singapore city.
Commenting on this blogpost, Anon clarified that critics should first read the full transcript of Shanmugam’s lecture to appreciate the context of his assertion that Singapore is a city, not a country
Read the transcript.
When he spoke about Singapore being a ‘city’ rather than ‘country’ he was explaining why elections in Singapore were so lopsided despite us holding free and fair elections.
He compared Singapore to cities in the USA, and how many cities in the US had a single party dominating elections for decades.
While he did say that Singapore “isn’t a country”, he certainly didn’t mean it that way!
Clement Tan is disappointed that Shanmugam, a leader from the new generation, would deliver a controversial argument like this:
I am very disturbed by what the Singapore Law Minister said...
At least with Lee Kuan Yew and members of the older guard, I knew what I could expect from them- whether or not I actually agree with them, is another issue.
But with K. Shanmugan, part of the newer generation of Singaporean political leaders, I'm not even sure if he actually believes, connects and knows what he's arguing for.
The Temasek Review dissects the loopholes of Shanmugam’s arguments
Did Mr Shanmugam make a “honest mistake” or a freudian slip?
If Singapore is NOT a country, then are we still considered a sovereign and independent state?
So which country owns the sovereign rights of the city of Singapore?
Singapore is unique in the sense that it is both a country and a city at the same time.
As an important minister in the Singapore cabinet, Mr Shanmugam’s words carry a lot of weight.
Why are Singapore males serving National Service when they are only defending a city and not their country?
Who does our Prime Minister report to?
What value does our pink IC have?
Are we citizens of a country or residents of a city?
The Journey of a Decade believes that yes, Singapore is and has always been a city:
Not say I say what..
This sentence seems to have angered quite abit of Singaporeans....
Lets get this straight... no one said anything about Singapore being a country.
We have always been a city.
We have always been an island city state.
I can understand how we often we hear things like defending the country among others....it is not exactly correct.
It should be defending the city.
Iran's Leading Women's Magazine Suspended After Covering Cohabitation Outside of Marriage · Global Voices
Shahla Sherkat hopes to convince the court to allow resumption of the Zanan-e Emrooz's monthly publication.
Photo from ICHRI, and used with permission.
Iran’s Press Oversight Committee has decided to suspend publication of Iran’s premier women’s magazine, Zanan-e Emrooz (Today’s Women), and forward its case for prosecution to the Iranian judiciary.
In an interview with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, the publication’s managing editor Shahla Sherkat said that she hoped to be able to convince the court to allow resumption of the monthly magazine’s publication.
The Mehr News Agency announced the decision by the Press Oversight Committee, stating that the reason for the ban was the publication’s promotion and justification of “white marriages,” a term used by state officials to describe the cohabitation of unmarried couples.
“I have not been formally served with the notice of the decision.
I read about the ban on my publication in the news,” Sherkat said. “Considering the license has not been revoked, and it’s only suspended, I am hopeful I can convince the court with my reasoning, and that we can pursue our operation again,” she added.
Zanan-e Emrooz began publication in June 2014, and was suspended on the threshold of publishing its 11th issue.
Prior to starting Zanan-e Emrooz, Sherkat spent 16 years as the managing editor of Iran’s prominent Zanan magazine, which was banned on February 17, 2008, for publishing content that angered many hardliners, such as advocating for equal rights for women in divorce, child custody, and inheritance, among other issues.
After the ban on Zanan, Sherkat pursued a license for another women’s publication for almost seven years before she was finally granted one for Zanan-e Emrooz.
According to Mehr News, the Press Oversight Committee considered content in Zanan-e Emrooz magazine “against public chastity, based on Article 6, Item 2 of the Press Law.”
Sherkat told the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran that she has never received any prior notices from government officials about her publication’s content.
“I read in the news that the reason for the ban is content about ‘white marriage,’ published in an issue.
I will have to wait until the court date.
I have always been hopeful, and I remain hopeful this time that everything will be resolved, so that we are able to resume work again,” she told the Campaign.
Issue No. 5 of the publication, published over six months ago, reported on different viewpoints regarding cohabitation without marriage.
The hardline conservative Fars News Agency wrote that the reasons for the publication’s ban go beyond the issue of “white marriages.”
Fars cited articles on women’s rights and the issue of women’s presence in sports stadiums as other reasons for the ban.
Despite President Rouhani's Promises, Films Continue to Be Banned in Iran · Global Voices
Director Ahmad Reza Darvish directed the epic religious tale of the Ashura revolt.
Despite abiding by many of Iran's religious ethics to make the film, conservative religious elements eventually called for its ban.
Image from Art Director, published for reuse.
This is the first part of a post that originally appeared on iranhumanrights.org and is published here in collaboration with the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
Read the second part on Global Voices here.
Despite repeated statements made by President Hassan Rouhani regarding the need to allow more cultural freedoms in Iran, the banning of films in the Islamic Republic has continued unabated during his two-year administration.
The latest film added to the list of forbidden cinema was as recent as July 2015, when the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance, under the direct authority of President Rouhani, banned "Rastakhiz".
This brought the number of films that have not received permission for public screening to 14 in Iran since 2007.
Although most of these films were prevented from screening during Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s presidency (2005-2013), they have yet to be seen by the public two years after Rouhani replaced him.
The most frequent reasons for the bans include references in the films to the mass peaceful protests that followed the disputed 2009 presidential election in Iran, a highly sensitive subject in the Islamic Republic that hardliners continue to refer to as the “sedition,” and issues with what is perceived as “poor” hijab (female attire) on actresses.
On June 5, 2013, during his presidential election campaign, Rouhani promised he would “hand over the monitoring of cultural matters to the people,” and he questioned how any individual censor could fairly judge a film’s religious violations.
Such remarks increased hopes that banned films would make their way to the cinemas if Rouhani was elected.
Statements in support of cultural freedom continued during Rouhani’s presidency.
In a meeting with artists and cultural figures on January 8, 2014, he stated, “Viewing the arts as a security concern is the biggest mistake.”
He went on to say, “If there is no freedom, true artistic creations would not be produced.
We cannot create and produce arts on order.
Any type of security atmosphere can nip arts in the bud.”
In June 2015, at a press conference marking the second anniversary of his election to office, in response to a question by a reporter about the widespread cancellation of concerts over the past year, Rouhani said, “In the cultural domain, we believe cultural affairs should be relinquished to the people of culture, and the atmosphere must be facilitated so that consumers and producers of cultural works can meet.”.
Nevertheless, the disputes between the Rouhani administration’s Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance and Iranian filmmakers have still not been resolved, and the films remain banned.
A number of the blacklisted films were initially shown at the Fajr International Film Festival in Tehran, and some were screened in cinemas for a few days before being pulled.
The latest casualty, "Rastakhiz", was banned on the day it premiered, even though 40 minutes of it was cut to receive a screening permit from the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance.
During the past two years, extreme positions taken by conservative members of parliament and hardline media, along with ultraconservative religious groups, have played a central role in preventing films from public viewing.
In September 2014, the Cultural Affairs Committee of the Iranian Parliament wrote a letter to the Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance demanding he refuse screening permits for eight films that appeared to be sympathetic to the public “rebellion” against Ahmadinejad’s victory in the widely disputed 2009 presidential election.
“What we expect from the institution in charge of the film industry is to have the authority to carry out its decisions.
The Ministry of Guidance gave a permit for the screening of my film but then it was forced to pull it down after just two days, even though it was only being shown in a small cinema,” director Kianoosh Ayari told the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
This Ukrainian Artist Is Drawing Comics About His Imprisonment By Pro-Russian Militants in Donetsk · Global Voices
One of the draft images from the comic book detailing Zakharov's kidnapping and imprisonment by "DNR" militants.
Image from the artist on Facebook.
A Ukrainian artist who was captured by the militants of the pro-Russian "Donetsk People's Republic" for putting up irreverent guerrilla art is now working on a comic book to tell the story of his kidnapping and shed light on the plight of political prisoners in occupied eastern Ukraine.
Sergey Zakharov started creating artworks mocking the self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic" in July of 2014, working with fellow artists to scatter plywood figures of separatists sporting clown make-up and camouflage throughout the city streets.
Affixed to fences and buildings, the grotesque silhouettes immediately attracted attention and photos of them started popping up in social networks.
Inevitably, this drew the ire of the "DNR" militants.
Zakharov himself, attaching an artwork to a fence in Donetsk in 2014.
Image from Facebook.
Soon after his artworks went viral, Zakharov was visited in his workshop by armed men, who escorted him to the Donetsk Security Services building (one of "DNR"'s strongholds), along with his computer and art sketches.
Zakharov spent over a month and a half in captivity, where he says he was tortured.
Things like mock executions and beatings were par for the course, according to the artist.
In the middle of the night the guards would get drunk, seize one of the prisoners and take them to another building, where they would beat them again.
"A mock execution."
Another draft image from the comic book detailing Zakharov's kidnapping and imprisonment by "DNR" militants.
Now the artist, who moved to the Ukrainian capital Kyiv after facing persecution in Donetsk, has turned to the medium of comics to share his experiences of life in the occupied city of Donetsk and his treatment at the hands of the "DNR" militants.
Zakharov, who has been dubbed "the Donetsk Banksy" for his irreverent street art, first unveiled some of the draft pages for the future comic book on Facebook.
After some of the Ukrainian media picked up the story, the artist was approached by publishers with proposals to print the book, and is still working on finalizing the details of the project.
"Being transported from the Donetsk Security Service building to another prison."
A draft panel from Zakharov's future comic.
One of Zakharov's biggest artistic inspirations is Art Spiegelman's "Maus," one of the most prominent comic books in history, which received a Pulitzer prize for its graphic depiction of life in the Nazi concentration camps.
The Ukrainian artist hopes his comic book project will help raise awareness of the plight of other prisoners and captives who suffered (and continue to suffer) at the hands of the self-proclaimed separatist authorities in eastern Ukraine.
New Messaging App by Iran's Basij Militia Gives State Access to All Conversations · Global Voices
Officials hope Salam will lure users away from applications such as Viber and WhatsApp that are hugely popular in Iran.
Screenshot taken by the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran.
The Basij paramilitary organization, a subsidiary of the Revolutionary Guards (IRGC), announced the launch of its new messaging service for mobile phones, “Salam.”
The application will give state officials full access to all content and data that pass through it.
The new messaging application, now available for free download, will use servers owned and controlled by the Basij, thus allowing easy access to and monitoring of all user conversations by the paramilitary group and intelligence agents.
Officials hope Salam will lure users away from applications such as Viber and WhatsApp that are hugely popular in Iran, and which state organizations have tried to block in the past in their efforts to control all online and mobile phone communications.
The new application represents another step in the authorities’ continuing efforts to replicate all international online applications and services with state-issued ones, so that user content can be accessed and monitored by state officials.
National search engines, email services, browsers, operating systems, and SSL certificates have all been introduced as part of this effort to implement a state-controlled National Internet.
The national project intends to provide services separate from the global Internet and thus subject to control and censorship by state authorities.
In an interview with the Basij Press, Hamid Jafari, Head of Iran Basij’s Information Center announced the Salam messaging application on May 5.
Jafari said that Salam will serve as an alternative to Viber, WhatsApp, and Telegram, with “more trust, stability, and security,” as compared to the Western options.
Jafari also advised users to save their “valuable time and life, by staying away from networks” such as Viber, WhatsApp and Telegram.
“If you take a look at the history of social networks, you will reach the conclusion that the so-called social networks are based on Western philosophy, where humanism and human-centered philosophy is their deciding factor.
In other words, none of the principles and fundamentals of Islamic philosophy can be seen in these networks,” Jafari told Basij Press.
Video: How the Green Iguana Came to Outnumber the Human Population of Puerto Rico · Global Voices
Image taken by Bernard DUPONT and uploaded to Wikimedia Commons.
Used under a Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 2.0 Generic License (CC BY-SA 2.0).
Though they are not endemic to Puerto Rico, green iguanas have flourished here due to the absence of natural predators.
They were introduced to Puerto Rico through the exotic pet trade and today are considered an invasive species, so much so that in a few decades the 4 million strong population now outnumbers the entire population of Puerto Rico.
It is common to see them in trees, mangroves and near the side of the roads.
Known colloquially in Puerto Rico as gallina de palo, which loosely translates to "chicken of the trees", these herbivores can grow to about 1.5 meters in length, though they can reach lengths of up to 2 meters and can live between 10 to 15 years in the wild.
In some countries of Central and South America, green iguanas are part of the local cuisine, which is why they are protected by laws that regulate their hunting.
Because they are such a popular part of the diet in some areas and are much sought-after by the exotic pet trade, they are listed in the CITES Appendix II (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora), which means that, even though they aren't quite considered an endangered species, trade has to be controlled in order to make sure their numbers don't go down too much.
In Puerto Rico, some people have decided to hunt the iguanas for free in order to help farmers protect their crops.
A group called Los iguaneros de Aguada not only hunts them, but also encourages people to try them as food, showing how to prepare and safely cook the meat.
Some environmentalists have formed teams of volunteers to help control the population of green iguanas in natural reserves.
Because one female can lay as much as 75 eggs —more than 90% of which will hatch successfully— the best way to do this is to harvest the eggs from the nest, thereby eliminating it altogether.
We've eliminated since the year 2008 to the present approximately 13,000 eggs from the population.
That's a big number, but this is something that we're gonna have to do for the next 15, maybe 20 years.
You can see the full video below:
Learn To Speak English With a 'Pershian' Accent · Global Voices
A new series is resulting in a lot of laughs across social media.
I can't stop laughing.
This is brilliant! - Persian Accent Word Pronounciation https://t.co/dw8HzjsfgJ #Iran #Persian — Reza H. Akbari (@rezahakbari) September 11, 2015
These eight-to-ten-second videos teach viewers how to pronounce words with a thick and delectable Iranian accent.
Learn to pronounce English words in a mock Iranian accent, and say things like "eskool" (school), or "eyes ceream" (ice cream).
And in case you didn't get it the first time, the instructional teacher will repeat the word for you three times with various degrees of emphasis on the Iranian pronunciation of the words' consonants, vowels and syllables.
The core of the video celebrates just how well Iranians can take a joke, especially about themselves.
The group behind the comedic instructional series is called Accent Cards.
Based in Canada, the Iranian member of their collective of five said they wished to remain anonymous because, as they said in an email to Global Voices, "it's not about us, it's about the accents."
The group consists of what one member explained to be "a Persian, a Russian, an Indian, an Italian, and an Iraqi."
That's when I realised how diversely English language is pronounced.
This made think about coming up with a way to celebrate all the different ways English is spoken and sharing it.
Kind of like a video wikipedia of accents with a hint of comedy.
As a Persian living outside of Iran, I miss speaking Farsi.
Whenever I hear someone speak with a Persian accent it makes my day.
The Persian accent is beautiful, passionate and funny all at the same time.
I love how Persians can take a joke, we can laugh at our own accent and at the same time be proud of it.
I live in Canada and have a very diverse group of friends, so I pitched my idea and formed our team.
Our goal is to upload 1 video a day and expand to other accents (Arabic, Indian, Russian, Italians, French,...) as we go on.
Follow the series and you'll quickly learn 'Iranian' is pronounced "Per-shian"
Using Paperclips, Broccoli or Microchips, This Japanese Artist Creates a Whimsical Diorama Every Day · Global Voices
Miniature Calendar by Tatsuya Tanaka.
Image from Amazon.co.jp
Using common household items, Japanese artist Tatsuya Tanaka has been creating tiny whimsical dioramas every day since April 20, 2011.
Photos of more than 1,500 dioramas have been published on his website as a Miniature Calendar, which is also for sale on Amazon's Japanese site.
He also uploads photos of his creations onto Instagram, where he has attracted a mass following of more than 260,000 followers.
Tanaka, whose Instagram profile says he works as an art director for an advertising agency in rural Japan, says on his website about the project:
Everyone must have had similar thoughts at least once.
Broccoli and parsley might sometimes look like a forest, or the tree leaves floating on the surface of the water might sometimes look like little boats.
Everyday occurrences seen from a pygmy’s perspective can bring us lots of fun thoughts.
I wanted to take this way of thinking and express it through photographs, so I started to put together a “MINIATURE CALENDAR” These photographs primarily depict diorama-style figures surrounded by daily necessaries.
Just like a standard daily calendar, the photos are updated daily on my website and SNS page, earning it the name of “MINIATURE CALENDAR” It would be great if you could use it to add a little enjoyment to your everyday life.
Here is a selection of just a few images of his dioramas that he has posted to Instagram.
The photos typically include a whimsical (and sometimes nonsensical) caption:
Man: We want to install more solar panels!
Worker: Well, that's gonna cost money!
"Without us having to do anything at all, time continues on like an escalator."
"Tatooine is sure hot." "Just a moment, I'm going to Google it." "Time to pull out the soldering iron."
(I just wanted to try saying that)
"Bamboo forest."
We grow straight and tall, without bending.
(Holiday: July 7th is the Tanabata Festival)
Why does it have to be rainy on Sun-day?
It's July 1st...
Summer's here and surf's up!
Check out Tatsuya Tanaka's Instagram feed for more photos.
How Do You Say 'Bro' in Latin America? · Global Voices
The Bromap: How do you say "bro" in Latin America?
The Facebook page for Pictoline, a highly visual site for news and information, shared this map with the different ways people in Latin American countries say "bro", short for brother in English.
While in Mexico they use wey and pata in Peru, it's pana in Venezuela and parce in Colombia.
How School Lunch Plays a Central Role in Education in Japan · Global Voices
As anyone who has ever attended or taught at a Japanese school can tell you, school lunch (給食, kyuushoku) is the most important part of the day.
It provides not only nourishment, but also an opportunity to teachers and students to bond by eating together.
While the lunch is typically prepared by full-time staff in a large kitchen either in the school or at a central facility that serves the entire school district, it's the students who are responsible for serving lunch for their classmates.
New York-based Cafeteria Culture (CafCu), which has a mission to work creatively to achieve zero-waste public school cafeterias and climate-smart communities, has produced an engaging informative video that provides great insights about how school lunches are a fundamental part of learning in Japan's schools.
Vladimir Putin's UN General Assembly Speech: Beyond Hashtags · Global Voices
Edited photo shared widely and anonymously online.
Three dozen world leaders read speeches to each other in New York this Monday, September 28, at the 70th session of the United Nations General Assembly.
In Russia, President Vladimir Putin's address to the UN was a national media event.
TV networks broadcast marathon coverage, and Putin's remarks were carried live on primetime.
After he was done speaking, talk shows assembled roundtables to discuss the speech.
On the state-owned channel Pervyi Kanal, panelists debated whether Putin had more effectively sparred with Barack Obama or connected with the world community.
On the Internet, journalists drew attention to a handful of hashtags that appeared to be the promotional work of several bot networks.
The most common among them, "PutinPeacemaker," was an alliterative attempt to celebrate the Russian President's efforts to resolve the Syrian Civil War by backing President Bashar al-Assad.
Using this hashtag and others like it, there were more than a few efforts to make it seem like ordinary folks really believe in Vladimir Putin's ability to solve this conflict and others.
While any kind of electronic popularity is easily inflated with bots, hashtags are particularly fraught with problems and vulnerabilities to manipulation.
The application TweetDeck offers a somewhat different way to isolate "popular" tweets, and that's how the following tweets about Putin were collected.
Below you'll find an assemblage of tweets mentioning Putin's name (spelled in Russian) with more than 25 retweets.
With one exception, tweets by news agencies have been excluded, as have tweets that simply quoted something Putin said during his speech or at one of his meetings afterwards.
The idea of this list is to showcase what comments about Putin seemed to resonate best with Russian-speaking Twitter users today.
These Guys Really Like Putin
First on the list is a tweet by the Russian state-owned media outlet RIA Novosti, which hints that Putin managed to reach some kind of important deal with the United States today in New York.
Notably, RIA Novosti also uses the hashtag #PutinPeacemaker, which didn't appear much in the "top tweets" recorded by TweetDeck, despite the efforts of an apparent bot network.
Putin recommends against looking for secret meanings in photographs of his lunch at the UN. #PutinPeacemaker
One common interpretation of Putin's visit to New York was that his reception in the United States signals the West's failure to isolate Russia.
Photographs of Obama and Putin dining and shaking hands are said to prove that Russia is, in fact, a vital member of the world community—even in a place like the United States, which has helped lead the campaign to punish Moscow for its policies in Ukraine.
The very essence of isolation.
The #PutinPeacemaker hashtag managed to attract a significant number of retweets only one other time on this list.
That tweet, found below, is typical of many of the posts featuring this hashtag (except for the fact that other Twitter users actually shared it).
While Navalny's supporters and others say this is due to Putin's fear that naming Navalny would empower him as an adversary, Russians who don't think much of the anti-Kremlin muckraker seem more inclined to believe that Navalny-supporters' gripes about Putin's rhetorical reticence are simple arrogance. Alexey Navalny's supporters have once again noted that Putin didn't once mention Alexey Navalny.
Among the highly-retweeted posts were several texts by prominent Putin supporters.
Moscow city councilman Alexey Lisovenko was ready to speak for the whole world:
I listened very carefully to the speeches by Obama and Putin today at the UN. I can say with certainty: the world should be grateful that it has Putin.
An account that regurgitates and mimics statements by Dmitry Kiselyov, a prominent television host and head of the Kremlin-controlled Rossiya Segodnya media conglomerate, shared more advice for the entire world:
Putin made it very clear that only one force in the world should override all others: the United Nations.
And this message was clear to all countries, except the US and its satellites.
Other Twitter users found Putin's speech to be simply a good opportunity to make fun of the Americans:
Putin didn't once say the word "faggots," but everyone knew he was talking about the United States.
Putin's supposed influence over the market was a theme exploited by both his fans and his critics.
In this example, a Twitter user implies that Putin's tough talk in New York succeeded in driving down the US stock market. Putin speaks and the money-changers tremble.
Putin's star-studded schedule, when compared to Poroshenko's relatively less impressive meetings, was fodder for jokes about Kyiv's growing isolation, as the honeymoon phase of Ukraine's post-Maidan relationship with the West comes to a close. Putin met with the Secretary General of the UN, the President of Iran, the Prime Ministers of Iraq and Japan, and President Obama.
Poroshenko had a meeting with an open bottle.
In the spirit of speculating wildly about what photographs signify, an image of Obama extending his hand to Putin seemed to many Russian Twitter users to be proof that the White House was probably lying when it claimed the Kremlin "begged" to arrange the meeting between Obama and Putin.
Remember the Ukrainian and American news headlines about "Putin begging Obama to meet"?
Now it's obvious who begged whom. :)
These Guys Really Dislike Putin
Today's most resonate tweets about Putin's UN trip weren't all doting hashtags and photos of him consuming alcohol; the anti-Putin crowd was out in force, as well, flooding the Web with its own special brand of snark and angry mockery.
While the Russian President's fans celebrated his apparent ability to influence trading on Wall Street, his critics tied Putin's remarks to the slight depreciation of the ruble against the dollar during his UN address. PUTIN OINK LEADER OOOOINK OF THE WORLD WEEEEEE OOOOOINK After the US news network CNN mistakenly identified Putin as the late Boris Yeltsin (Russia's first post-Soviet president), some saw it as an opportunity to joke about Putin's advancing age:
CNN mistook Putin for Yeltsin.
This shows that Putin is already dead to the whole civilized world.
As Putin's tenure as head of state approaches more than 15 years (including his time as prime minister under Dmitry Medvedev), obsession with Putin's death is palpable.
For many both inside Russia and beyond its borders, imagining a new Russia is impossible without first removing Putin, who isn't expected to go quietly.
It doesn't matter when Putin will meet with Obama.
What matters is when he meets with Muammar Gaddafi...
Putin's warning to the West that it risks repeating its Libya mistakes in Syria didn't impress anti-Kremlin blogger Kirill Mikhailov, who argued that Syria is already far bloodier and more chaotic than Libya.
Putin really doesn't want Syria to turn into Libya. the statistics for casualties and refugees in these countries since 2011.
Those who don't fantasize about a dead Putin content themselves with visions of the Russian President on trial, presumably for war crimes in Ukraine, or perhaps for repressive policies at home.
Photographs of Putin sitting in a chair ahead of his speech at the UN unflatteringly made him seem quite miniature.
The image proved to be handy material for jokes about "Putin on trial."
When he's on trial at The Hague, Putin will also be facing the world community with a police officer at his back.
Not all the anti-Putin tweets were fanciful speculations about Putin's ultimate demise.
Political commentator Andrei Piontkovsky said nothing of Putin's mortal coil, warning instead that Putin is dragging Russia into a Middle Eastern holy war.
Saving Assad's butt, Putin throws Russia into the sizzler of a medieval religious war between Shiites and Sunnis.
Finally, some Russian Twitter users managed to gain an audience by flipping the pro-Putin crowd's rhetoric on its head.
A question to all the Putinists out there: if Obama is a dick, but Putin shook his hand, what does that make Putin?
The Enormous Mural That Made a Mexican Neighborhood ‘Magical' · Global Voices
Las Palmitas and the "macro mural" in its final stage.
Photo taken with permission from the Germen Crew collective's Facebook page.
In the center of a small neighborhood located in the city of Pachuca, Hidalgo, the largest graffiti mural in all of Mexico, painted onto a canvas of 200 homes, was inaugurated this July.
But the "macro mural" has done much more than simply give some color to the hillside district of Las Palmitas, a predominantly rural neighborhood with a certain degree of poverty and crime. The collective effort has created jobs, reduced youth violence and instilled a sense of community spirit, turning Las Palmitas into what the project leaders have dubbed the "first magical neighborhood" — a play on the Mexican government’s separate initiative to promote “magical towns” (Pueblos Mágicos) as tourism destinations.
Leading the project was the independent Mexican collective the Germen Crew (Seed Crew), composed of urban artists specializing in graffiti art, mural painting and audiovisual documentary. A group which, through public and street art, aims to give new meaning to public spaces and restore social fabric for the benefit of communities. Their Facebook page reads as follows:
'The first magical neighborhood of Mexico'
Watch Serj Tankian's '100 Years' Commemoration Video for the Armenian Genocide Centennial · Global Voices
Serj Tankian performing in "100 years".
Source: Screenshot from the music video.
Serj Tankian is best known as the frontman of alternative metal/hard rock band System of a Down with whom he has been playing with since 1994.
The band's relationship to the Armenian Genocide is a rather direct one: they're all Armenian-Americans and themselves descendants of survivors of the Genocide.
Tankian himself has already distinguished himself as a passionate activist for a variety of causes, from criticizing the US prison system to environmental issues.
Needless to say, the struggle for the international recognition of the Armenian Genocide is particularly important to him.
As he recently told Rolling Stones magazine, speaking of justice:
I think for us it's important for Turkey to know its own history in a truthful manner.
It's not just about the genocide of the Armenians, Greeks and Assyrians, but what's going on now.
There are no executable international agreements that have to do with stopping the genocide.
Irrespective of a number of great U.N. bodies and even U.S.-based bodies in terms of genocide prevention, there's no binding resolution on any genocide or holocaust occurring.
We still see them happening.
I read in today's press that they discovered a mass grave in Deir Ezzor in Syria of ISIS massacres of this one tribe there, and it reminded me of all the bones that are under those sands in Deir Ezzor from the first genocide of the 20th century in the exact same place.
If that's not symbolism, I don't know what is.
Global Voices was at the latest System of a Down concert, part of the band's "Wake Up The Souls" tour in commemoration of the Armenian Genocide.
The band gave a free concert on April 23 (the night before the Official Centenary) in Yerevan's Republic Square which was attended by thousands of Armenians, as well as Georgians, Iranians, Ukrainians, among others.
Serj Tankian playing in Yerevan's Republic Square on the 23rd of April 2015.
More Photos. But if metal isn't your thing, don't despair. Tankian is a prolific artist.
His video '100 years' features Duduk (Armenian flute), Daouli (regional drum), Lyra (regional stringed bowed instrument) and Kanun (regional string instrument) musicians as well as guitar, piano and violin with him on vocals.
This beautiful performance echoes the heavy history suffered by Armenians, Greeks and Assyrians.
As its description states: "the video is a somber commemoration to honor the Armenian, Greek and Assyrian victims of the first genocide of the 20th century."
Fears for Imprisoned Syrian Bassel Khartabil, Transferred to an Unknown Location · Global Voices
The FreeBassel poster from @freebassel on Twitter.
Bassel Safadi has been imprisoned in Syria for almost four years and friends and activists fear for his life after he was transferred from his prison today to an unknown location
Activists are calling upon the Syrian government to immediately release imprisoned Syrian-Palestinian software engineer Bassel Khartabil, also known as Bassel Safadi, after he was moved from his prison to an unknown location earlier today.
Safadi, who has been in prison for almost four years, is also a well-known open-source software developer.
He is a Creative Commons leader in Syria and active in projects like Mozilla Firefox and Wikipedia, and is credited with opening up the Syrian Internet and extending online access and knowledge to the public.
According to the European Parliament, his detention is part of Syrian government efforts to restrict access to online communities and stifle freedom of expression in the country.
According to a Facebook page set up by supporters calling for his release:
Bassel was transferred from Adra prison to an unknown location after a patrol, whose affiliation is not known, came to him and asked him to gather his things.
It is expected that he has been transferred to the civil court headquarters at the Military Police in Al Qaboun area.
We are worried and fear for Bassel after his whereabouts are unknown again
Khartabil was arrested on March 15, 2012, on the first anniversary of the start of the Syrian revolution.
He was interrogated and tortured for five days by Military Branch 215.
He was then transferred to the Interrogation Division Branch 248 and detained incommunicado for nine months.
On December 9, 2012, Khartabil was brought before a military prosecutor without an attorney present, and charged with "spying for an enemy State".
He was then sent to the Adra Prison in Damascus, where he has been held, until today.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) notes that:
It was Bassel's visibility as a technologist and activist that made him a target for detention.
An online petition, initiated by friend and campaigner Mohamed Najem, is available at Change.org calling for Khartabil's immediate release.
Please click the link to sign it.
Friend and freedom of speech campaigner Jillian C. York, who is also EFF Director for International Freedom of Expression, lends her support to the drive.
She tweets:
My friend Bassel Safadi has been transferred from Adra prison in Syria, we don't know where-Please sign our petition https://t.co/sER4lWTXjB — jillian c. york (@jilliancyork) October 3, 2015
We know petitions won't convince Syria (or anyone) but it's all we've got.
Please help get the word out so Bassel stays safe. — jillian c. york (@jilliancyork) October 3, 2015
Breaking Down Cultural and Racial Stereotypes About Latin Americans, One Joke at a Time · Global Voices
Humor can be an interesting way to analyze the phenomenon of groups migrating to wealthier countries, where they become minority populations.
Latin Americans in the United States are a perfect example of this occurrence—so much so that the Spanish-language television network Univision saw a market it could exploit: a younger, generally bi-cultural audience.
Often comprised of second and third generation immigrants, these viewers are very experienced in the use of new media.
The videos are made predominantly in English—often with subtitles—and they are intended for a young audience interested in Latin American culture.
Flama is also has a strong presence on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and even Google+.
Even though the videos predominantly portray middle-class Latin Americans, without putting into question the discrimination suffered by this very heterogeneous group in the United States, there is a space to criticize the largely negative stereotypes and preconceptions, which North American society usually propagates about this group.
Some of the issues addressed using humor and comedy are:
The problems Latin American newcomers experience at the office, as a result of differences relating to family structure and cultural and linguistic misconceptions:
The irritation that Latin Americans express in light of the stereotypes created by North Americans at their expense:
The prejudices that "white Latinos" are fed up with hearing, from their North American friends and acquaintances, regarding their physical appearance:
Situations related to bilingualism, particularly to the use of "Spanglish":
Stereotypes of Latin American women at the moment they initiate an emotional relationship:
In ways like this, Flama challenges the essentialization of Latin American identity and shows the plurality and existing variety at its core.
Large communities in the US are unaware of issues like those described above, but the cultural intersections will always great opportunities to spark people's interests.
Venezuela's Oscar Entry Speaks an Indigenous Language · Global Voices
"Gone with the River" by Mario Crespo is Venezuela's Oscar entry in the Best Foreign Language Film… https://t.co/XR8tzauaSU — Carlos Aguilar (@Carlos_Film) September 3, 2015
Lo que lleva el río ("Gone With the River"), from Cuban-Venezuelan filmmaker Mario Crespo Dauna, is a Venezuelan film shot almost entirely in Warao, the language spoken by the people indigenous to the Orinoco River Delta.
The film is Venezuela's entry to the Academy Awards for Best Foreign-Language Film.
According to Andrew S. Vargas, who wrote in Remezcla:
The story follows an indigenous woman named Dauna who is marked by difference within her community.
Torn between her love for Tarsicio or her desire to pursue studies outside of her village, Dauna’s decision to challenge the expectations of her traditional culture lead to suffering and, ultimately, reconciliation."
The film was selected as part of the Berlin Film Festival’s groundbreaking NATIVe showcase, earlier this year.
Here is the trailer:
Syrian Refugees?
Get Your Facts Straight Before You Share Their Stories · Global Voices
Refugees are Human Beings.
Photograph from Commons Wikimedia CC-BY-SA-3.0
Sadly, this year is shaping up to be the year of Syrian refugees.
Although the countless stories of people fleeing their war-torn country are heartbreaking, we need to look at some of those stories with a pinch of salt.
Unfortunately, in some cases the world continues to be misinformed by images and video circulating online that are purportedly of the tragedy but have actually been manipulated or described inaccurately.
The reasons vary from clicktivism to politics.
For instance, some European right-wing political parties are using the recent refugee crisis to further push their agenda and close the doors on Syrian refugees taking refuge in Europe.
In fact, a photograph claiming to show Syrian refugees waving the ISIS flag in Germany, which is widely being shared on Facebook, is three years old and is not related to the current crisis.
Below are four stories of Syrian refugees stories you may have come across on your social media accounts, which are far from what they appear to be.
Story 1: The Italian fashion model and the Syrian immigrants' boat
Shared on the Syrians in Belgium group on Facebook, this video above is shared with the following caption:
An Italian model is filming a video on the beach and suddenly the unexpected happened and a group of unexpected refugees arrives on the beach safely in Italy.
This model will become famous for this funny and spontaneous incident which will not repeat itself.
Most of them are Syrians and Palestinians.
Thank God for their safety.
However, the model filming the video being shared far and wide is not Italian and the video itself is not even shot in Italy.
And the refugees are neither Syrian nor Palestinian.
The original video was published on July 10, 2015, on YouTube by US-based Russian model Ekaterina Juskowski with the description:
Ms. Juskowski, a Miami-based artist and a founder of the Miami Girls Foundation (www.miamigirls.org) "who migrated from Russia at age 18 as a university student – had a more compassionate take.
She said, “Witnessing people starting their life anew by jumping off the boat and running into the city made my personal struggle seem rather small.
As controversial as the problem of illegal immigration can be for many of us, it is important to remember that people come here in search of the better life, and it comes at a very high price of great courage, hard work, and loneliness.
I got to know America as a country with a big heart.
While I trust it to the U.S. government to work out the policies on improving the immigration laws, it feels natural to stay compassionate and understanding on a personal level.”
Story 2: A Syrian boy sleeping between his parents' graves
"There’s a big chance you have seen this dramatic picture of a Syrian boy covered by a blanket sleeping between the two graves of his dead parents.
It went viral after some big accounts published it on Twitter," reads Harld Doornbos Blog.
There is only one problem: The picture is not from Syria, but from Saudi Arabia.
Photo credit haralddoornbos blog
The blog was maybe the first to investigate the case by contacting the photographer behind this story, Abdul Aziz al Otaibi, a Saudi national, from Yanbu al Bahr city.
His nephew is the boy who appears in the photo:
“Look, it’s not true at all that my picture has anything to do with Syria,” Al-Otaibi says, “I am really shocked how people have twisted my picture.”
“I love photography,” he continues over the phone, “Every artist has ideas in his head. So I had the idea to make a project whereby I show in pictures how the love of a child for his parents is irreplaceable.
This love cannot be substituted by anything or anybody else, even if the parents are dead.”
On Twitter, Abdul Aziz al Otaibi shared another photograph of his nephew in January 2014, hoping to set the story straight:
This is also photograph from behind the scenes with my nephew Ibrahim
Story 3: Immigrants refuse non-halal food
According to Red Cross spokesman John Aangendal Nielsen speaking to French newspaper Liberation, refugees refusing the parcels was not related to the contents, which were halal, but was a kind of protest against the police who blocked their way and kept them stranded throughout the night under the rain.
On YouTube, komehtap K explains:
Muslim migrants in Macedonia refuse Red Cross parcels because of... the red cross
The headless chicken reaction by the leaders of the European Union regarding mass migration by hundreds of thousands of people has resulted in these so called refugees not only demanding to be allowed to go where they want to go, but insisting on subscribing to the religious bigotry they claim they are running away from.
Here on the Macedonian/Greek border Red Cross aid parcels are being refused due to them having a red cross on the box.
And the left call me a bigot for questioning the veracity of these so called refugees
And on Twitter, many reacted with anger at the "ingratitude" of the refugees:
I saw a video of a load of Syrian men throwing food offered to them away because it ain't halal.
They should be sent back IMO — Niall (@SpiritBlade_) September 10, 2015
Unbelievable and ungrateful! #Syrian #refugees in #Hungary are complaining because the food they are being given is not guaranteed as Halal. — Mike (@1961mike) September 11, 2015
Story 4: The photoshopped image of a Syrian mother at sea
A Syrian mother trying to swim to safety carrying her toddler child.
Photo gone viral (source unknown), but it isn't what it seems to be.
This photograph of a Syrian mother struggling at sea has been making the rounds online.
But something is amiss.
Netizens were quick to notice that the photograph was photoshopped, covering the woman's hair.
Omneya Talaat tweets:
When society is only concerned with covering a woman's hair and not providing her with a dignified life, then it is a society on its way to oblivion.
There is nothing to argue about here
The blog Phogotraphy asked why a doctored photograph is being used to highlight the plight of Syrian refugees:
This terrifying photograph shows Syrian refugee Rukhsan Muhammed who was rescued off the coast of Turkey in 2013 after the boat she and her son were on capsized.
Without the need for an expert’s inspection it is clear that a white headscarf has been crudely applied to the photograph using digital tools.
The moment captured is one of utter despair, indeed since the photograph was taken we learned that Rukhsan had been in the water with her one year old son who was washed away and drowned by the strong currents.
So why trivialise this awful situation by drawing on a headscarf to protect this poor woman’s modesty?
Does her dress matter?
Phogotraphy explained:
Of course underneath any clothing is a human being, a mother who has lost her child and nearly her own life.
We want to care about this person and if she lived to tell of her ordeal.
Within the series of images from the Anadolu Agency we can see that Rukhsan was thankfully rescued and what is striking to us now is not a story of survival, but further insight to her clothing.
We can see now, clearly that she dresses like us, The West.
During rising xenophobia in Europe being prevalent surely a more effective way of realising our compassion is by showing the world we are all the same.
Refugees arriving in Europe are escaping the fate of 320,000 Syrians who have been killed back home in Syria since the start of the war in their country four years ago.
They have risked it all to ensure their future and that of their children.
Should they be judged for aspiring to live?
São Paulo Will Host the 2016 World Social Forum on Migrations · Global Voices
In 2014, the Forum was held in Johannesburg.
In 2016, Brazil will once again host the event.
Credit: Rodrigo Borges Delfim/MigraMundo
As the largest city in South America, in a place where history is intimately linked with migration, São Paulo will host the seventh edition of the World Social Forum on Migrations (WSFM, or FSMM in its Portuguese acronym) in 2016.
The announcement came from the International Committee of the WSFM, the organizers of the event.
This will mark the second time the Forum on Migrations makes its home in Brazil.
Previously, Brazil had set the stage for the first edition of the WSFM in 2005, in Porto Alegre, a city that had also hosted the first edition of the annual, larger World Social Forum in 2001.
Since debuting in 2005, the biannual editions of the smaller World Social Forum on Migrations have taken place in Madrid, Spain, (2006 and 2008); Quito, Equador (2010); Manila, Philippines (2012) and Johannesburg, South Africa (2014). The new WSFM logo, displaying São Paulo as the 2016 host. Credit: Divulgação
“The forum represents a recognition of the struggle over many years of social movements in the city, above all, that of immigrants, who are increasingly taking on more leadership roles.
I believe migrants will be the key players in this process," says Paulo Illes, immigration policy coordinator for the municipality of São Paulo and member of the forum's organizing committee.
The exact dates and location have yet to be determined, but the event is being planned for mid-2016.
The slogan for the newest edition of the WSFM will be: “Migrants: building alternatives to disorder and the global capital crisis" (Migrantes: construindo alternativas frente à desordem e à crise global do capital, in Portuguese).
Mexican Newspaper Launches Mayan-Language Edition · Global Voices
Photo of the Mayan edition of La Jornada daily newspaper in Mexico, published on Twitter by @YUCATANALMINUTO.
La Jornada, one of the main newspapers in Mexico, has recently launched an edition with content in Mayan.
It will be published daily in Mérida, the state capital of Yucatán, in Mexico's southeast.
According to the National Institute of Statistics and Geography of Mexico, Mayan is the country's second most spoken indigenous language, with about 800,000 speakers, after Náhuatl.
Today, the largest populations of Mayan speakers can be found in the Mexican states of Yucatán, Campeche, Quintana Roo, Tabasco, and Chiapas.
The institute indicates that in Mexico around 6.6 million people speak an indigenous language, which in 2010 represented 6.5 percent of the Mexican population, a reduction since 1930, when this figure was around 16 percent of the population.
Mayan is also spoken in the Central American countries of Belize and Guatemala.
It forms part of the legacy of the Mayan culture, which was famous for its literary and architectural wealth, such as the structures of Tikal in Guatemala and Chichen Itza in Mexico. This is how La Jornada referred to their new Mayan-language edition:
Twitter user Martin del Mar celebrated the newspaper going into circulation: The best Mexican newspaper arrives in the Yucatan Peninsula: From today La Jornada Maya will go into circulation in Mérida.
Deadly 7.5-Magnitude Earthquake Jolts South Asia · Global Voices
The Hindu Kush region, where the epicentre of the earthquake was.
The mountain ranges mainly run thru Afganistan and Pakistan.
Image from Flickr by LensNMatter.
CC BY
Updated 8:30 a.m.
GMT Tuesday, 27 October, 2015
A powerful earthquake hit northern Afghanistan earlier, with tremors being felt in Pakistan and India as well.
The magnitude 7.5 quake was centred in the mountainous Hindu Kush region, 45 kilometres (28 miles) south-west of Jarm, Afghanistan, the US Geological Survey reported.
The death toll from an earthquake crossed 200 in Pakistan, according to BBC.
Local news channels reported 231 dead and over a thousand injured.
At least 33 died in Afghanistan.
Schools in Pakistan's quake-hit areas will remain closed on Tuesday, October 27, due to possible aftershocks, according to local media:
Educational institutions in quake-hit areas to remain closed tomorrow #earthquake pic.twitter.com/Tjv3F9AnGf — JAAG TV (@JaagAlerts) October 26, 2015
After the earthquake, accounts of eyewitnesses started to flood the Internet, as well as sympathies from around the world:
#AFG One of the scariest experiences.
Was stuck inside a building during this massive earthquakes, I have experienced. — Bilal Sarwary (@bsarwary) October 26, 2015
Really strong tremor felt here in #Kabul - not for long thankfully.
Was a bit scary for as long as it lasted.
Ok now #Afghanistan — shaimaa khalil BBC (@Shaimaakhalil) October 26, 2015
Looks like that quake shook Pakistan too.
Went on for quite a bit.
Panic, power outage in #Kabul #KabulQuake — Ahmad Shuja احمدشجاع (@AhmadShuja) October 26, 2015
#Karachi Office building evacuated after #Earthquake hits Pakistan 7.7 scale pic.twitter.com/SIVPH9sxo9 — Imran Ghazali (@ImranGhazaliPK) October 26, 2015
Metro #Rawalpindi at the time of #EarthquakeInPakistan pic.twitter.com/AjFhFHKE01 — Arshad Sharif (@arsched) October 26, 2015
A lot of Twitter users were spreading messages about how to stay safe when an earthquake hits.
Some basic earthquake safety tips here: https://t.co/lVJguRNXid pic.twitter.com/Lz2iNPXAyO — Zarrar Khuhro (@ZarrarKhuhro) October 26, 2015
What to do during an #earthquake.
Pls share.
Image via @iqrabashir482pic.twitter.com/vM1tl8icLp — Ali Salman Alvi (@alisalmanalvi) October 26, 2015
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani also expressed themselves on social media after the earthquake.
Meanwhile, Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif while speaking to the media said that he has cut his trip to London short due to the disaster and should be returning to Pakistan soon.
Spoke to PM Nawaz Sharif & expressed condolences on the loss of lives due to the quake.
Offered all possible assistance from India. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 26, 2015
Praying for the victims of today's severe earthquake in AFG & the region.
V're assessing the situation.
Relief/rescue operation is underway. — Ashraf Ghani (@ashrafghani) October 26, 2015
A Pakistani website put together a timeline of the deadliest earthquakes in the past 30 years.
Today's earthquake was, however, was one of the strongest ones to have hit Pakistan.
This video uploaded in Facebook shows how a ceiling fan shook when the deadly earthquake struck Pakistan earlier today.
Eyewitnesses told news channels on television that the earth beneath their feet shook for many, many seconds.
Massive earth quake felt in F11 Islamabad.
Buildings being evacuated.
People screaming Allah o Akbar — Syed Ali Abbas Zaidi (@Ali_Abbas_Zaidi) October 26, 2015
Major Earthquake has hit our mother land Paksitan.
All our prays and well wishes are with the families.May Allah protect all of us.
Ameen — Saeed Ajmal (@REALsaeedajmal) October 26, 2015
#earthquake strikes due to our sins,so recite Astaghfar and beg from Allah to forgive our sins.indeed Allah is the best listener — Sumaira Jamil (@real_sumaira) October 26, 2015
Hearing of a massive earthquake in Pakistan, Afghanistan & India.Our prayers for everyones safety & well being.
May Allah have mercy on all. — Fakhr-e-Alam (@falamb3) October 26, 2015
After the earthquake, telephone, mobile and Internet networks came to a stand still in some places:
For 20 minutes mobile network remained choked after earthquake in Delhi.I dread to think what will happen when a deadly disaster strikes us? — InimitableIndian (@skv_india) October 26, 2015
Mobile network not available #earthquake — Azeem Wyne (@AzeemWyne) October 26, 2015
Telecom towers do not crash/collapse this easily.
The networks r unavailable cuz of serious line blocking (TCH channel blocking) #ProTip — Faisal Ahmad Jafri (@faisalahmadj) October 26, 2015
#earthquake Mobile network restored in #srinagar — Aakiz Bhat (@bhataky) October 26, 2015
Its natural as the scale of earthquake was huge and people dial up their friends relatives ASAP Cellular network iPAK is severely congested — Hassan Khan (@hassan_k82) October 26, 2015
Google announced it had expanded its Person Finder services to Pakistan and Afghanistan following the quake:
Want to locate some or report someone's location at Google's Person Finder to help locate missing people #Earthquake https://t.co/ICOmk2uC7l — AZ _BAR_ علی زین (@alimaan) octubre 26, 2015
After Google, people have also started marking themselves safe on Facebook to inform their friends and family.
Facebook has introduced 'Mark yourself safe' for Afghanistan, Pakistan, India earthquake pic.twitter.com/vNlnGkj0SL — Shiraz Hassan (@ShirazHassan) October 26, 2015
German Lawmakers Squish Into a Rubber Dinghy to Better Understand Refugees · Global Voices
Parliamentarians in a rubber dinghy in Berlin.
Photo: Chris Grodotzki / jib collective for SeaWatch. Used with permission.
Parliamentarians of the German Bundestag experienced on October 13 how it feels to be on a precarious rubber raft together with another hundred people.
The private initiative Sea Watch was behind the haunting campaign, which seeks to draw attention to the situation of refugees who cross the Mediterranean to reach Europe.
Lawmakers who were willing to participate gathered on the riverbank of the Spree in Berlin to climb into the dinghy.
Lisa Paus, a parliamentarian from Germany's Green Party, tweeted about the event.
She referenced a Doctors Without Borders member speaking about his experience on board with Sea Watch: Doctors Without Borders report about #seawatch and dreadful impressions during sea rescue #refugeeswelcome
Sea Watch explained on their website that the campaign was timed with the launch of the second phase of the European Union's "Operation Sophia" against human traffickers, which will allow armed forces to board and seize ships suspected of smuggling people across the Mediterranean.
The Bundestag approved the deployment of up to 950 soldiers for the task earlier in October.
Sea Watch's central aim is to save lives in the Mediterranean; so far, the organization has rescued 2,000 people from distress at sea.
Meanwhile, the European Union's main concern since the end of "Operation Mare Nostrum" in late 2014 is to secure the borders and take action against human traffickers.
Not all politicians were on board with the organization's event.
Paus quipped that Christian Social Union's (CSU) chairman Horst Seehofer, who has condemned the government's policy on refugees as being too lax, was no where to be found:
One parliamentarian of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) wrote: Absolutely ghoulish and vulgar, #seawatch plays refugee boat on the safe Spree river with parliamentarians at the German Bundestag
On the same day, Sea Watch announced it would be expanding its efforts to Lesbos, Greece:
Legal ways.
Now!
Appeal and announcement: #SeaWatch will start rescue and observer mission on #Lesbos.
Following the Paris Attacks, Some Africans Wonder If All Human Lives Are of Equal Value · Global Voices
Rebels training in Central African Republic.
Photo released under Creative Commons by Flickr user hdptcar.
Following the November 13 attacks that killed at least 129 people in Paris, France, a large number of Facebook users around the world showed their solidarity with that country by replacing their profile pictures with the French flag.
Many Africans online joined the rest of the world in expressing sympathy and solidarity with France by doing the same.
However, not everyone supported the idea, arguing that attacks in Africa do not receive enough global or even local sympathy.
One Facebook user, for example, wanted to know why there wasn't a similar push to change profile pictures to the Nigerian flag after Boko Haram militants killed 200 people in the country.
Death and destruction at the hands of militant groups
Sub-Saharan Africa has suffered its fair share of violence from politically or religiously motivated organizations, killing thousands of people.
Most of these attacks are from militant groups such as Boko Haram in Nigeria and Cameroon; Al Shabaab in Somalia, Kenya and Uganda; the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda, South Sudan and Central African Republic; and Séléka militants in Central African Republic.
For example, on April 2, 2015, Al Shabaab militants attacked the Garissa University College in Kenya, killing 148 people.
And on September 21, 2013, the group attacked Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, killing at least 67 people.
In April 2014, Boko Haram kidnapped 276 schoolgirls from Chibok, Nigeria, leading to a global campaign under the hashtag #BringBackOurGirls.
In July 2015, the group killed at least 200 people in Kano, Nigeria.
Amnesty International described a brutal attack on Baga, a town in Nigeria, by Boko Haram early this year as the group’s “deadliest massacre in recent history”.
Controversy rages between the official estimate of 150 deaths against the 2,000 reported by other independent sources.
The attack happened around the same time that Charlie Hebdo shootings took place in Paris, France.
After the Nigerian attack, Global Voices author Nwachukwu Egbunike asked, "Why Hasn't the Baga Massacre Made as Many Headlines as the Charlie Hebdo Attack?"
Out of 10 countries with the highest number of deaths caused by "terrorist activities" in 2014, four of them are in Africa.
Nigeria ranks second, before Afghanistan but behind Iraq.
'I refuse to acknowledge that some human beings are more special'
Nigerian-based Facebook user Sen John Ayokunle Falodun expressed his opposition to the French flag gesture:
To me its so strange how Suddenly people are praying for France, changing to French flag.
And I started asking myself different Questions, do we value the lives of the less than 200 people who died in Paris more than the thousands killed by Boko Haram?
How many French Nationals do we see use Nigerian flags as and then pray for Nigeria whenever strikes?
How many of us have prayed for Nigeria in the wake of all the strikes?
It is time Africa and Africans wake up to be counted mostly Nigerians.
I believe it is inferiority complex that is responsible for this.
Don't get me wrong, I am totally against terrorism, and I feel pained by the incidence in Paris but i think what my people lack is the will.
Boko Haram killed over 200 in kano in a day, Did Nigeria do not have flag?
I wonder why we like to take medicine for another person's headache.
Boko haram are killing us in numbers...yet no Nigerian use our flag or wrapped it on His or Her body.
The flag of France used by people around the world to show solidarity with the country.
Public Domain photo sourced from Wikipedia.
Another Facebook user, Kimario Pankrass, said:
Facebook recommends people to change their profile picture to French flag which I would do to support the victim's but do they have one for Beirut Lebanon where bomb killed people 24 hours ago, what about The constant attack in north east Nigeria by Boko Haram, also over 200 Russians died of bomb blast on a plane in Sinai, I refuse to acknowledge that some human beings are more special than the rest of us.
Life of a simple farmer in Nigeria,African Americans in South Carolina, a baker in Beirut, a russian tourist and French concert goers should and must be valued the same and equal to life of a child in West bank.
The world has a hypocritical double standard, please do not play to it.
What happened in paris is despicable, but so is what happened in Beirut barely 24 hours ago.
I suggested europeans change their profile to french flag, Africans change their flag to green and white (nigerian flag) and middle east change their to colors of Lebanon.
If anything, change your profile to the image of the globe for a better world.
Peace to the whole world.
Adamu Chiroma shared an article that had gone viral quoting the former aide to ex-Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri.
The use of the French flag for profile images, according to Omokri, shows "low self-esteem" on the part of Africans and Asians:
According to the cleric, “Terrorism is evil and condemnable.
But we should not only cry when it happens in rich nations.
We should treat it the same wherever it occurs.
I sympathize with France, but why are Africans and Asians putting French flags on their profile when they do not put their own nation’s flag on their profile when terrorists attack their own nations?
Are French lives more precious than their own brothers and sisters who are killed daily by home grown terrorists like the satanic Boko Haram and Al Shabab."
'We live in a global village'
Commenting on Omokri's arguments against the use of the flag, Luqman K. Olateju thought the former presidential aide is short-sighted:
France and Paris are hugely important because they are the bastion of hope, freedom, opportunities and civilization for the world and particularly their people.
What has your country done to provide the same for its people?
I presume you'd say nothing.
Your own countries have been ravaged by corruption, mismanagement and over many years, bad leaders.
When your rich folks in Nigeria or even in Asia fall sick, they run to the western world for treatment.
They cannot even stay in their countries hospitals to be treated because they don't trust the health care there.
That's why Paris, London, New York, Brussels, Switzerland are important When the girls were kidnapped in Maiduguri , did you tell tell France, Britain or the United States to provide resources to help retrieve them, of course, not.
They did it on their own.
Other Facebook users like Izuchukwu Justin from Nigeria saw nothing wrong with the gesture.
He pointed out that Facebook has not forced anyone to use the French flag:
you never woke up to see your profile pix covered with a French flag overlay/ filter, facebook never forced anyone to do that!, so why the f**k are you complaining Now??, Hey guys groW uP!, this is JUST to express solidarity for FRANCE, if you don't wanna do it, i mean changing your profile pix, you want to show solidarity in your mind but not on facebook, GOOD!!!!.
Also if you choose not to show solidarity nor pray for them, its yours!
OK.
Writing on a citizen media site, Zambia Reports, Peter Adamu called the criticism of the French flag profile photo "primitive thinking and hypocritical".
He argued that acts of violence themselves don't discriminate based on nationality, but instead target anyone in sight, as well as that France and other Western countries have given much in resources and support.
Many people in Western countries participated in the #BringBackOurGirls campaign, he pointed out, and even if they hadn't:
Even if France and other European nations did not show sympathy with African death victims, 2 wrong don’t make a right.
Moreover our African culture attaches much respect to death victims regardless of race!
We are one and we live in a global village so let support each other regardless of our Race!
Five Facts About Mexico's Día de Muertos · Global Voices
Altar made by a student at City College of San Francisco.
Photo by Lupita Peimbert.
Across the United States people commemorate November 2 as the Day of the Dead (Día de Muertos), a Mexican celebration that honors people who have passed away and makes death something to think differently about.
The exquisite aesthetic of this tradition — decorated skulls, flowers, elaborate altars — have seduced Americans, becoming one of the most popular costumes during Halloween.
Pop culture has also endorsed this holiday with movies like "The Book of Life" by Mexican filmmaker Guillermo del Toro and the upcoming "Coco" from Pixar studio.
Various companies interested in the large Hispanic market in the US have been adding the November 2 celebration to their marketing and community relations efforts.
For example, the supermarket chain Trader Joe's decorates some of their stores with calaveritas (decorated skulls) and sells zempazuchitl flowers (marigolds), among other products.
day of the dead wine! @ Trader Joe's http://t.co/IhnhnARS — Andie Mills (@AndieMills) September 28, 2012
It offers a different outlook on death. With this Mexican-Latino festivity, people learn to not fear death and the dead, but instead to play with the concepts and to laugh about our mortality.
The Story of an Ethiopian Girl Who Fought Abduction, and the Lawyers Who Saved Her Life · Global Voices
Tizita Hagere (right) plays the role of 14-year-old Hirut Assefa in 'Difret.'
Credit: Truth Aid Media.
This article and radio report by Joyce Hackel and Julia Barton for The World originally appeared on PRI.org on October 22, 2015, and is republished here as part of a content-sharing agreement.
The word "Difret" has many shades of meaning in Ethiopia's language Amharic: it can mean both "to dare" and "to have courage," but also "to be violated."
Like its title, the film "Difret" represents many things: it's a work of fiction based on a true story of courage and change; it's one of the only films from Ethiopia shot on 35mm film; and it's got big name recognition in the form of executive producer Angelina Jolie Pitt.
But above all, the film tells the story about a traditional practice through the experience of one frightened girl caught in a whirlwind beyond her control.
"Difret" is based on the story of Aberash Bekele — called Hirut in the film — a girl who was abducted by men on horseback outside her rural Ethiopian village.
It's the day she's promoted to 5th grade in school. Her captor — who failed to get her father's permission to marry her — insists he now has the right to marry her according to a tradition known as telefa.
But she fights back, accidentally killing him.
She faces a death sentence until attorney Meaza Ashenafi steps in to fight for her.
The resulting courtroom drama riveted the nation in 1996, when it took place.
"People started to talk about abduction all over again," Meaza Ashenafi recalls now.
"It was a given, especially in the south of the country, women have been abducted for years.
There was no question about it.
But this case opened up a discussion and dialogue around this traditional practice."
Ashenafi had just established the Women Lawyer's Association two years earlier to fight for the rights of women according to Ethiopia's then-new constitution.
A scene from "Difret" depicts the horseback kidnapping of the main character.
Credit: Truth Aid Media
"Difret" played to sold-out audiences in Addis Ababa for six weeks.
When the filmmakers looked to take it abroad, they sent it to Jolie, a well-known advocate for women's rights in Africa.
"A foreign-language film from Africa has a tough road ahead for it in terms getting to an audience," filmmaker Mehret Mandefro admits.
"So having her support really helped us ... reach people I don't think we could ever reach."
Despite the big-name support and the success of "Difret," Ashenafi and Mandrefo say their work is not done: they estimate that at least 20 percent of marriages in the south of Ethiopia are coerced through some form of telefa.
"This has to stop," Ashenafi says.
"This should not be tolerated at all."
As for the subject of the film itself, Mandrefo says she had a hard life — after the case, she wasn't allowed to return to her village or family.
She attended boarding schoool, and later decided to change her name and leave Ethiopia.
But she's recently returned and working on the issue of telefa, hoping to keep girls from facing an ordeal like she did.
Thank the Ottoman Empire for That Taco You're Eating · Global Voices
Tacos al pastor from Carmela's Mexican Restaurant in Beaumont, Texas.
Credit: Randy Edwards/CC BY-NC-ND 2.0
This article and radio report by Deena Prichep and Daniel Estrin for The World originally appeared on PRI.org on May 7, 2015, and is republished here as part of a content-sharing agreement.
At the Supermercado Mexico in Portland, Oregon, you’ll find a turning spit of pork, basted with chili and onions, dripping fat and flavor.
Shave some off into a tortilla and you’ve got a taco al pastor, the classic Mexican street food.
It’s a similar scene halfway across the world in Jerusalem.
At the hole-in-the-wall Al Waary restaurant, there’s a vertical rotisserie of beef spinning next to the flames, flavored by tangy vinegar.
Shave some off into a pita, and you’ve got shawarma — the quintessential Middle Eastern street meat.
If you're thinking these beloved dishes might be linked, you're right.
So we hit the street food trail to find out, starting in Jerusalem.
“Shawarma is very, very interesting,” says Ali Qleibo, a Palestinian anthropologist, sitting at the Al Waary shawarma joint.
The origin of the word shawarma comes from the Turkish word çevirme, which means "turning."
Ali Qleibo, a Palestinian anthropologist, in front of Al Waary shawarma stand in Jerusalem.
Credit: Daniel Estrin.
Published with PRI's permission
You can find some version of shawarma everywhere in the Middle East where the Ottoman Empire once reigned.
“Turks call it döner kebab; Greeks call it gyro; Iraqis call it kas,” Qleibo says.
“This shows you the all-pervasive influence of the Ottoman Empire, because all the subjects of the Ottoman Empire eat shawarma even though they call it by different names.”
Of course, the people of the Ottoman Empire didn’t all stay there.
About 36,000 people under Ottoman rule left for Mexico between the late 19th and early 20th century.
“People came from as far as Egypt.
I found some people came from Iraq,” says Theresa Alfaro-Velcamp, a history professor at Sonoma State University who has tracked the migration of Middle Easterners to Mexico.
“The majority came from the Levant, as it was called during that time, which is now modern-day Lebanon and Syria.”
The migrants left for the usual reasons: looking for economic opportunity, dodging army conscription and escaping sectarian violence.
And when they arrived, they brought their food with them.
“By the 1930s, there were restaurants that served shawarma,” says Jeffrey Pilcher, a historian and author of the book "Planet Taco."
A shawarma sandwich in Jerusalem.
Swap in pork for lamb, and a tortilla for a pita, and you've got the Mexican classic, Taco al Pastor.
Then the cuisine morphed: “During the 1960s, the Mexican-born children of these Lebanese migrants ... start opening up their own restaurants, and they start to create a kind of a hybrid cuisine," Pilcher says.
“They take the technology that they grew up with in these Lebanese restaurants, the vertical rotisserie — but instead of using lamb, they use pork,” Pilcher says.
“They marinate it in a red chili sauce, which gives it that distinctive color, and they cook these up and serve them and call them tacos al pastor.”
Even the term "al pastor," which means "in the style of the shepherd," is a nod to the original Middle Eastern lamb version of the dish.
When Mexico’s economy boomed after World War II, tacos al pastor moved from small towns to bigger cities and eventually into the US.
The fact that this classic dish was a relatively recent import from the Middle East doesn’t necessarily make it any less Mexican, adds Pilcher, the taco historian.
“Authenticity isn’t always something that dates back to the ancient Aztecs and Mayas,” he says.
“That meaning of Mexico is continually being recreated in every generation.”
But whether it’s lamb or pork, tortilla or pita, Jerusalem or Portland, the essentials have remained the same: Fat and fire, a handful of spices, a quick meal — and a taste of tradition.
Sex Never Stops Selling.
Even in Conservative Tajikistan · Global Voices
Tajikistan is turning the lights out on prostitution - or is it?
Wikipedia image of Amsterdam's red light district.
For representational purposes only.
Sex was been at the top of conservative Tajikistan's agenda last week as the government cracked down on sex workers while the country's first online sex shop stirred both excitement and disapproval.
According to new amendments to a law on prostitution, sex workers caught breaking the law a second time will get bigger penalties and potentially face up to two weeks in jail.
The state's crackdown on sex workers dates back at least to last year.
In the spring and summer of 2014 authorities raided night clubs, restaurants and bars, hotels, and red light districts in search of sex workers, shaming those they detained.
The militantly secular government's media also stated this year that sex workers were wearing hijabs to cover up their activities, without offering convincing proof for the accusation.
The clients of sex workers are not punishable under Tajik law, although in practice many usually pay bribes in order not to see their faces appear on TV bulletins or on the interior ministry's website.
With the public campaign against sex work failing miserably, Tajik internet users are divided over whether harsher punishments will lead to any change in the situation.
Comments on the topic ranged from extreme anger:
They should be executed under Sharia law.
Otherwise, they will return to their dirty job in two weeks.
...to calls for mercy and understanding:
They went to brothel not from a good life.
Other comments, even those sticking up for the sex workers, betrayed the patriarchy common to internet commentary in Tajikistan:
If there were good jobs in Tajikistan, no-one would go to work in a brothel, that is for sure.
Everyone wants to have a good life.
Well-educated people cannot find jobs with good salaries, how can the uneducated find a job?
Those girls who say, that they would prefer to wash restrooms — you are just saying that.
If you were in the situation of those women, you would also push your legs apart to eat and dress well.
Others still challenged the MPs to see the irony in the law they had just passed:
I have a question – how should these women work to earn money to pay the fines?
Responding to this law, prostitutes increased the price of their services....
Little else to sell
Tajikistan has faced tough economic and social challenges since independence from the Soviet Union and the outbreak of a civil war that raged from 1992 to 1997.
Widespread corruption, bad management, tribalism and a lack of the rule of law are helping to destroy the country, which is more dependent on remittances sent home by migrants than any other in the world.
Hard times have also befallen economic and political patron Russia, resulting in a rebound effect.
Just days ago Tajikistan was named the country most vulnerable to hunger in ex-Soviet Central Asia.
The situation is especially difficult for women, whose husbands leave for Russia and then often disappear without a trace, sometimes re-marrying.
A woman who has already been married finds it difficult to re-marry, since men in the majority-Muslim republic tend to demand virginity as a precondition for marriage.
This has even led to the rise of virginity tests, billed as the basis of a happy marriage.
Economic desperation in the country has driven some young mothers to suicide, while some others choose prostitution, either at home or abroad in Russia.
Facebook user Dilovar Munavvarov explains why jailing sex workers stops nothing and increases the already significant risks they face:
NO.
Increasing fines and jailing them will worsen the situation and might have the following outcomes: (1) To avoid arrest sex workers and their clients will look for remote places, which will in turn endanger these women, as they might be beaten etc; (2) Everyone will try to end the process faster.
They will have less time to think about protection from infectious illnesses; (3) More grounds for police to misuse their power, i.e. beatings, violence, bribery, blackmailing etc plus anyone detained and subjected to violence could be accused of prostitution; (4) Less courage for sex workers and their clients to seek justice and protection in the case of violence.
How will you complain about being beaten by police or a client, if as a result you will get a $200 fine or 15 nights in jail?
Talking shop
The anti-prostitution law has coincided with broad condemnation this week of a recently opened Facebook sex-shop in the country.
The shop's page has since been deleted having aroused both interest and criticism.
A woman, who came under fire for posting her positive views on the shop's work concluded:
It seems that the people discussing this topic are now sending me friend requests because of my positive view on the :-) Love your wives, and friend them !
The Streets of Paris Are as Familiar to Me as the Streets of Beirut · Global Voices
Memes widely shared in solidarity with the victims of the Paris attacks.
I come from a privileged Francophone community in Lebanon.
This has meant that I have always seen France as my second home.
The streets of Paris are as familiar to me as the streets of Beirut.
I was just in Paris a few days ago.
These have been two horrible nights of violence.
The first took the lives of over 40 in Beirut; the second took the lives of over 120 people and counting in Paris.
It also seems clear to me that to the world, my people’s deaths in Beirut do not matter as much as my other people’s deaths in Paris.
We do not get a "safe" button on Facebook.
We do not get late night statements from the most powerful men and women alive and millions of online users.
We do not change policies which will affect the lives of countless innocent refugees.
This could not be clearer.
I say this with no resentment whatsoever, just sadness.
It is a hard thing to realize that for all that was said, for all the progressive rhetoric we have managed to create as a seemingly united human voice, most of us members of this curious species are still excluded from the dominant concerns of the "world".
And I know that by "world", I am myself excluding most of the world.
Because that’s how power structures work.
I do not matter.
My "body" does not matter to the "world".
If I die, it will not make a difference.
Again, I say this with no resentment.
That statement is merely a fact.
It is a political fact, true, but a fact nonetheless.
Maybe I should have some resentment in me, but I am too tired.
It is a heavy thing to realize.
I know that I am fortunate enough that when I do die, I will be remembered by friends and loved ones.
Maybe my blog and an online presence might even gather some thoughts by people around the world.
That is the beauty of the internet.
And even that is out of reach to too many.
Never so clearly as now have I understood what Ta-Nehisi Coates wrote about when he spoke of the Black Body in America.
I think there is a story to be told of the Arab Body as well.
The Native American Body.
The Indigenous Body.
The Latin American Body.
The Indian Body.
The Kurdish Body.
The Pakistani Body.
The Chinese Body.
And so many other bodies.
The Human Body is not one. It sure feels that it should be by now.
Maybe that in itself is an illusion.
But maybe it is an illusion worth preserving because without even that vague aspiration towards oneness on the part of some part of the body, I am not sure what sort of world we would be living in now.
Some bodies are global, but most bodies remain local, regional, "ethnic".
My thoughts are with all the victims of today’s and yesterday's horrific attacks, and my thoughts are with all those who will suffer serious discrimination as a result of the actions of a few mass murderers and the general failure of humanity’s imagination to see itself as a unified entity.
My only hope is that we can be strong enough to generate the opposite response to what these criminals intended.
I want to be optimistic enough to say that we are getting there, wherever "there" might be.
We need to talk about these things.
We need to talk about Race.
We just have to.
An Animated History of How the Cherokee Have Adapted Their Language for Technology · Global Voices
Throughout history, whenever a new communication technology was introduced into society, the Cherokee people have ensured that their written language could adapt.
From the printing press and the typewriter to today's readily available digital technologies like computers and smart phones, the Cherokee language is fully functional thanks to the help of tireless advocates and activists along the way.
As one of the most actively used native languages in the United States, the Cherokee language is spoken by populations in North Carolina and Oklahoma, as well as other states across the country.
While more people are now able to write the Cherokee language with syllabics, which are written characters that each represent a syllable, retaining and encouraging more speakers of the language continue to be a high priority.
The use of technology has been one way to attract increased interest in the language.
A new animated video produced by the Cherokee Nation Education Services and the Language Technology Program tells the story of this adoption of new technologies over time.
Narrated by the Cherokee hero Sequoyah, who first created the first Cherokee syllabary in 1821, the video introduces viewers to some of these breakthroughs.
The Cherokee Nation Language Technology Program supports those interested in utilizing written Cherokee with a special focus on digital technology.
Its aim is to create "innovative solutions for the Cherokee language on all digital platforms including smartphones, laptops, desktops, tablets and social networks."
Available on its website are valuable resources such as a glossary of neologisms for technology-related terms, keyboard layouts, and fonts.
Communication technology is constantly evolving, and if history is any indication, the Cherokee language will continue to evolve right along with it.
Je Ne Regrette Rien: Kyrgyzstan's Hated Ex-President Begs No Forgiveness in New Book · Global Voices
Kyrgyzstan's Ex-President Kurmanbek Bakiyev.
Wikipedia image.
Kurmanbek Bakiyev, the second of Kyrgyzstan's two exiled presidents, has a new book out. In it he absolves himself of blame for a reign drenched in corruption and bloody political violence that led to the death of over 500 people.
Aida Kasymalieva, a leading journalist from the Central Asian country wrote on November 4 a response to the book Pain, Love and Hope: My Kyrgyzstan in the form of a blog on leading news portal Akipress.
In it she recalls in 2011 interviewing the country's first fugitive president and Bakiyev's predecessor, Askar Akayev.
Akayev, a former physicist who took control of the country after independence, was ousted in Kyrgyzstan's 'Tulip' revolution in 2005 and shared Bakiyev's lack of repentance:
In 2011, while working in Moscow as a correspondent from radio "Azattyk" I was nervously preparing for an interview with the former president of Kyrgyzstan, Askar Akayev.
It seemed to me that it would be one of the most memorable interviews in my career and my life We talked for over an hour.
Time after time, with the stubbornness and impudence of youth, I repeated my single question — did he want to apologize to the Kyrgyz people?
Instead, Askar Akayev accused everybody whose name he could remember, but not himself.
I was struck by the human ego — how can you evade the feelings of guilt and not simply ask for forgiveness?
Pendechilik is a Kyrgyz word that translates as human weakness.
Now when regular annual interviews with Askar Akayev appear in the news, I do not even read them.
What is there he can say that is interesting or new if he remains unrepentant?
Akayev's regime was also tarnished by graft, nepotism and blood, notably when six people were killed in a standoff between protesters and police in 2002.
But its violence paled in comparison to that of the Bakiyevs, credited with sending a severed ear by post to a former chief of staff subsequently murdered by henchmen.
Yet Bakiyev's self-depiction is rather different in the opening lines of his book, where he writes of himself dreaming of "snow-capped peaks, clear mountain lakes, the tickling smell of the spring grasses and the first rain, the striking view of shining, eternal glaciers."
The truth, he writes, in a nod to the country's nomadic heritage, is "bitter like the smoke from a shepherd's campfire."
Bakiyev, Kasymalieva noted in a recent Facebook post, might have spent some time reflecting on the ills of his close relatives, such as elder brother Janysh, who oversaw the security services that opened fire on protesters in 2010, or his son Maxim, who allegedly acquired huge swathes of the struggling economy.
Instead, he goes down the route of self-justification, claiming the "biggest mistake" of his career was appointing in 2007 as Prime Minister Almazbek Atambayev, the country's current president, who he describes as a lazy and prone to drinking.
His 2010 overthrow, he concluded, was sponsored by a "third force" he never explicitly names.
Kasymalieva rounds off her blog with a wish that the current president and future presidents of the country will not spend their retirements abroad writing diatribes about erstwhile political rivals, and instead follow the example of third President Roza Otunbayeva who handed over power peacefully and willingly:
Let those of us that have remained behind on this coast, looking at the fugitive's boat, pray that we are always proud of our presidents in the future, both present and past. that there will not be so many tons of bitterness in the books of e-presidents.
That they will walk as pensioners down Erkindik boulevard, and the younger generation will form a queue to take selfies with them.
So that our horse riding Roza Otunbayeva will be joined by Almazbek Atambayev on skis.
Is that realistic?
Commonwealth Youth Demand That Leaders Stop Talking and Act · Global Voices
Attendees Of The Commonwealth Youth Forum 2015 (CHOGM).
Photo from CHOGM 2015 Facebook Page
The youth of the 53 Commonwealth member countries are meeting in Malta just days before the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting (CHOGM), which takes place in Valletta from 27 to 29 November, 2015.
The forum, attended by over 200 young people between 18 and 29 years old, started on Saturday, November 22, 2015 and will end today, November 26, 2015.
The Commonwealth Youth Forum (CYF) 2015 participants are expected to come up with solutions which they will present to the heads of states for action.
Most of the participants are tired of policy makers and their leaders who discuss issues that are never implemented.
A total of 60% of the Commonwealth population — an estimated 2.3 billion people — are under the age of 30.
#WhatNext is the main slogan of the forum and the hashtags #WhatNext and #CYF2015 are being used to share the proceedings of the forum.
The Commonwealth Youth Secretariat summarised the spirit of the youth forum on Twitter:
"Silence never won rights.
They are not handed down from above.
They are won by pressures from below."- @anglufarrugia #CYF2015 #WhatNext — Commonwealth Youth (@ComSecYouth) November 23, 2015
Despite conflicts and differences that have developed between nations in the world today, the Commonwealth youths have chosen friendship and working together, as pointed out by Mohammed Hoodh, a youth leader from the Maldives:
#Malta & #Maldives friends and youth leaders is working together for the common good is #WhatNext #CYF2015 pic.twitter.com/JEun4txKQb — MHI (@M_Hoodh) November 23, 2015
Maltese social worker and youth leader Bugeja Georvin called for investment towards youth ideas:
Invest in our ideas!We must take proactive actions now.We are the leaders of today. #CYF2015 #WhatNext @ComSecYouth pic.twitter.com/kf0ju3T61y — Georvin Bugeja (@GeorvinBugeja) November 23, 2015
Mmanti Umoh, who works with the Nigeria-based future leadership organisation Global Shapers UYO, wrote:
This battle will be won when young people realise their potentiality and refuse to be 'used' to achieve negativity. #CYF2015#WhatNext — Mmanti Umoh (@MissChangeGene) November 21, 2015
Supporting the youth forum, Marie-Louise Coleiro, the president of host country Malta expressed her trust in the young people:
I believe in the positive and active role and contributions of #youths in promoting #development, #peace, and #democracy #CYF2015 — Marie-Louise Coleiro (@presidentMT) November 25, 2015
Moroccan Royal Motorcade Runs Down By-Stander · Global Voices
Moroccans are sharing links for a video showing a car which is part of a royal motorcade ferrying Moroccan King Mohammed VI running over a man in Tangiers during the visit of French President Francois Hollande.
Samia Errazzouki tweets:
Video footage showing royal security protocol running over a man in Tangiers during Francois Hollande visit https://t.co/1qwEy8fSBL — Samia Errazzouki (@charquaouia) September 21, 2015
Hollande was in Morocco for a two-day visit and was met by Moroccan King Mohammed VI on Saturday.
The video shows a vehicle in a motorcade with its doors open run over a by-stander moments after the King and his guest passed.
The waving cheering crowds then start screaming.
The video was uploaded by Tanja7.com on YouTube and has been viewed more than 31,000 times so far.
It is not clear what happened to the passer by.
Trinidad and Tobago's Oddly Overlooked—and Totally Legal—Fix for Marijuana · Global Voices
Three-quarters of all cases in Trinidad and Tobago's lower courts involve marijuana possession.
Trinidad and Tobago flag image, public domain.
Cannabis leaf by Oren neu dag (CC BY-SA 3.0), via Wikimedia Commons.
Images remixed by Georgia PopplewellBy Nazma Muller
On September 28, three weeks after a bitter and hotly contested general election, the Trinidad and Tobago cannabis law reform NGO C420 threatened to sue the country’s Ministry of Health.
The Ministry, said C420 director and co-founder Colin Stephenson, had failed to make it known that laws regarding the lawful possession of marijuana exist in Trinidad and Tobago, to make regulations governing the use of marijuana, and to explore uses of the plant other than smoking.
According to amendments made in 2000 to sections of the country's Dangerous Drugs Act, the Minister of Health can issue licences to grow, import, export, sell and distribute marijuana, as well as make regulations for “the use, purchase, sale or possession of any dangerous drugs for medicinal or scientific purposes.”
In May 2012, C420 applied to the Health Ministry for a special licence to import cannabis seeds and to cultivate the plant, and received a response from the Chief Medical Officer in December of that year stating that the granting of such a licence fell within the Minister’s remit.
C420 has also made several applications for medicinal marijuana licenses on behalf of individuals with medical conditions.
Former Trinidad and Tobago prime minister Kamla Persad-Bissessar (centre) with C420 co-founders Natallee Stephenson (left) and Colin Stephenson (right).
Stephenson said that in April 2015 the former Health Minister, Dr. Fuad Khan, had been instructed by the Prime Minister to meet with the group, but that the meeting never took place.
Statements made to the media by Dr. Khan regarding C420’s legal action suggest the Minister was unaware of the amendments to the Dangerous Drugs Act, in spite of the fact that they were made during his political party’s first term in office (1995 -2001).
The updated legislation has also been mysteriously overlooked by the legions of lawyers who earn astronomical fees defending clients charged under the Dangerous Drugs Act.
In the 15 years since it was introduced, it has never once been used as a defence in the thousands of marijuana possession cases that have been clogging the country’s judicial system.
At the opening of the 2013 law term, Chief Justice Ivor Archie called for decriminalisation of marijuana, and alluded again to the ridiculousness of “incarcerating people for two marijuana cigarettes” at this year’s ceremony.
David Robinson, the resident Crown Prosecution Service Criminal Justice Advisor, has also called for decriminalisation, suggesting that police officers give out fines instead of arresting people.
“The courts are overworked, over-burdened,” Robinson told the local daily Newsday.
“There is no other logical solution… Court is an incredibly expensive, time-consuming place to resolve a dispute.
You either say we want to deal with everything so you make the courts enormous and you pay for that. Or you limit the kinds of cases coming into the magistrates’ court.”
MARIJUANA AND TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO LAW
Marijuana is classed as a narcotic drug and psychotropic substance under the country's Dangerous Drugs Act Chap 11:25.
A person found to have marijuana in his/her possession is guilty of an offence and is liable, on summary conviction (in the magistrates’ courts) to a fine of $25,000 (US$3,900), and to imprisonment for five years.
Upon conviction on indictment (in the High Court), the person is liable to a fine of $50,000 (US$7,800) and to imprisonment for a term over five years, but not exceeding 10 years.
Possession of marijuana for the purpose of trafficking is also a serious offence. Being in possession of more than one kilogramme of marijuana is classed as possession for the purpose of trafficking, unless it can be proven otherwise.
Upon conviction on indictment the fine is $100,000 (US$15,600), or—where there is evidence of the drug's street value—three times the street value, whichever amount is greater, plus imprisonment for a term of 25 years to life.
Source: Marijuana and the Law in T&T
Since Jamaica’s decriminalisation of the herb came into full effect on April 15, many in the Caribbean have been hoping that CARICOM, the regional economic bloc to which Trinidad and Tobago belongs, will call for legalisation across the board.
This if only for economic reasons, as highlighted at a 2013 CARICOM heads of government meeting by the prime minister of St Vincent and the Grenadines, Ralph Gonsalves.
But Trinidad and Tobago's new prime minister, Keith Rowley, has said that while the issue might be “fashionable” at the moment, it isn’t a priority for his government.
In this year’s national budget, presented on October 5, national security once again received the largest allocation of funds.
The Minister of National Security is calling for “zero tolerance” on crime, as the murder rate continues to climb and shocking assaults on our women expose serious social upheaval.
Meanwhile, marijuana-related arrests continue apace and fields worth millions are destroyed, as people on marijuana charges are locked up alongside violent and often mentally ill inmates, in prisons whose horrific conditions recently came under the spotlight following a daylight jail break from a prison in the capital city.
The prisoners involved in the jail break had been awaiting trial in Remand Yard, where many often spend months or years awaiting bail or a trial date—and where up to 15 men are locked up in a single small cell with a bucket as their toilet.
As a sociologist, activist and leader of the Caribbean Collective for Justice, a spanking new political party that campaigned in the recent general election on a green platform that focused on cannabis legalisation (hemp and marijuana) and a radical transformation of the economy to address both environmental and social injustices, I have been writing for the last ten years about the devastating effects that the United States’ War on Drugs— what Rolling Stone magazine calls a trillion-dollar failure—has had on my compatriots, especially poor, young black men.
C420 has decided to hold off legal action and give the new government of Trinidad and Tobago an opportunity to address the issue.
They have since requested a meeting with the current Health Minister, and this week made a request to the Ministry under the Freedom of Information Act to find out if any licences have been issued for cannabis by the Ministry of Health in the last 15 years.
Should the Rowley administration decide to write the regulations and decriminalise marijuana, as allowed under the law, this would have a tremendous impact on the country’s huge narco-trafficking industry, overburdened judicial system and struggling health system.
With one of the highest rates of cancer, hypertension and diabetes in the region, Trinidad and Tobago’s hospitals and health centres are in crisis.
If cannabis licences are granted, the country can begin to benefit legally and openly from the positive medical benefits of marijuana—as is being done in Canada, Israel, Portugal, Uruguay and 23 states in the US.
Patients with epilepsy, diabetes, cancer, multiple sclerosis, irritable bowel syndrome and other conditions will be able to grow their own medicine.
Ready or not, the new government of Trinidad and Tobago must move swiftly to separate marijuana from the very real and dangerous illegal drug trade and allow the people who use it as medicine to do so without being jailed.
Nazma Muller is a Trinidad-born Rasta who writes for Caribbean Beat magazine.
She is the leader of the Caribbean Collective for Justice, which advocates environmental and social justice for the entire region.
How Myanmar Voted on Historic Election Day · Global Voices
Citizens earnestly wait and watch the live ballot counting in front of the office of the opposition party.
Photo by Irrawaddy shared on Facebook.
Despite some reported irregularities, Myanmar succeeded in holding a peaceful general election on November 8.
A total of 91 political and ethnic parties participated in the election.
The current ruling party, Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP), is led by the President Thein Sein; while the opposition party, National League for Democracy (NLD), is headed by Nobel Peace Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi.
Regardless of the election results, 25 percent of the seats in Parliament are reserved for the military.
This is based on the 2008 constitution drafted by the army to ensure that it continues to wield influence in the civilian government.
Furthermore, Aung San Suu Kyi is constitutionally barred from becoming president even if her party wins majority of the votes because she was married to a foreigner and she has foreign children.
Considered the country's first free and fair election
Although it is technically Myanmar's second general election, many consider the November 8 event as the country's first free and fair election.
Myanmar was under a military's dictatorship for 50 years.
In the 1990 election, Aung San Suu Kyi's party won with a landslide victory but the military ignored the results and took control of the government.
In 2010, the government allowed some political reforms like the holding of election although it was accused of rigging the results.
Some of the issues that marred the pre-election campaigning include the reported massive errors in the voters' list, disenfranchisement of some ethnic groups like the Muslim-dominated Rohingya, and the perceived biases or flaws of the election commission.
Despite these challenges, many citizens continued to believe in the promise of the November 8 election to promote change in society.
Many people used slogans such as အသဲကြားက မဲတပြား (A Ballot From Our Heart) and ပြောင်းလဲချိန်တန်ပြီ (Time to Change) which reflected the popular sentiment about the general election.
Below are some of the observations shared by voters during election day on various social media platforms.
Early birds during election day
Some people lined up as early as 4 a.m. even though polling stations didn't open until 6 a.m.
Ye Ling Aung tweeted a photo of people queuing to vote.
The very first 10 people went into the voting station.
Now I am the first in line. #MyanmarElection #Myanmarvotes pic.twitter.com/HlR1FZSdGG — Ye Lin Aung (@yelinaung) November 7, 2015
Ink-stained fingers
Many people posted photos of their ink-stained fingers to show that they had voted.
Blogger Ei Myat Noe Khin shared her thoughts about the significance of the day:
Well, for the rest of people, Nov 8th would be just an another Sunday, hanging out with friends, and do stuff but for us, Myanmar citizens who are going to vote, it’s not just another day
Kenneth Wong explained what this symbol could stand for:
My Burmese friends who have voted are proudly sharing photos of their ink-stained fingers — proof of casting a vote.
You might say, today the Burmese people give the old regime the finger!
Activist Khin Ohmar noted that many people complained about not finding their names on the voters' list, while some people testified about receiving multiple voter approval cards.
She also read some news that the ruling party is leading in the army constituencies.
Waiting for exit poll results
After the polling stations close at 4 p.m., people were anxiously waiting for the preliminary results.
Journalist Lupa Aung praised those who are working overtime at the polling station:
Respect those who are on duty at the polling station.
Some of them have not even eaten the whole day.
Salute their patience working for change.
A crowd gathers in front of the NLD office in Mandalay to watch the live counting of ballots.
Photo shared by Nik Nayman on Facebook.
Suspicious votes
Meanwhile, in Kayah state's capital city of Loikaw, the arrival of ballots with 5,000 pre-counted votes has angered candidates and voters.
Josephine Nan Mu reports:
5,000 pre-votes arrived out of nowhere in an election commission office in Loikaw.
Where it came from is quite blurred.
Fighting other representatives and whoever in charge there!
The arrival of 'advanced' votes took place in several areas across the country.
This news worried the public and electoral watchdogs.
Burma Partnership, a network of democracy and human rights advocacy organizations, monitored that the suspicious votes benefited the ruling party:
In Myitkyina around midnight, advance votes arrived, which were mostly for USDP.
The same situation with the arrival of advance votes in Monywa, Lashio, Taunggyi.
In remote and ethnic areas where it is strategic for the Burma Army, it seems they will not allow the NLD or ethnic opposition party to win.
But surprisingly, the opposition is not objecting:
What is interesting is that the NLD candidate who had already won by vote counts last night is not objecting this illegitimate arrival of the advance votes at midnight.
It will be interesting to see whether the NLD as a whole will respond to the arrival of these midnight advance votes.
Why Young North Koreans Are Daring to Wear Skinny Jeans · Global Voices
24-year old North Korean refugee Danbi was a smuggler in North Korea's black markets.
Here she gives us a tour of a market in South Korea, which reminds her of the markets in the North.
Credit: Heidi Shin.
Used with PRI's permission
This article and radio report by Heidi Shin for The World originally appeared on PRI.org on September 29, 2015, and is republished here as part of a content-sharing agreement.
Would you wear skinny jeans if they were illegal?
As it turns out, the answer is yes, at least for one young North Korean woman.
Danbi and I are browsing through a South Korean market, when she stops to admire a pair of slim fitting pants.
“Girls just love these back home!” she declares.
By home, she means a city in far-off North Korea.
She flips her hair dramatically, and laughs heartily, as she tries on a sparkly hair clip.
She recalls, “We all wanted to be able to run our fingers through our hair like this. Like we saw in a South Korean TV show.
But we couldn't.
Because we didn’t have enough shampoo in North Korea, so your fingers would just get stuck!”
Danbi is a 24-year-old North Korean refugee, who paints a picture of the totalitarian regime that’s quite different from the one we’re used to seeing, but an account supported by other defectors and those working with North Koreans.
Yes, the country is rife with human rights abuses and grinding poverty.
But Danbi, who took on her new name after fleeing, is from a city near the Chinese border — which has become surprisingly porous, and so she’s grown up in this presumably closed nation with a window to the outside world.
She says she shopped in black markets with smuggled foreign goods and watched American and South Korean TV shows, via smuggled USB sticks, since she was a kid.
So by the time she entered junior high, Danbi says what she learned in school — that Americans can’t be trusted and South Koreans are poor — she doubted its truth.
A police officer browses a South Korean market.
Danbi says many of the goods sold here can also be found in North Korean markets.
So she started skipping class and started smuggling goods across the now porous border.
She sold North Korean mushrooms to Chinese merchants, and brought back crates of rice, flour and other goods.
Now Danbi was probably a lot more daring and enterprising than your average North Korean teen.
But she is part of a generation of North Korean millennials who were kids during the country’s devastating famine of the 90s.
So young people like Danbi didn’t look to the country’s dictators to provide in the way their parents did, nor did they respect the government's rules.
She’s otherwise confident and even-keeled, but her voice rises suddenly when asked about the country’s leadership.
“We see their large bellies, while the rest of us are hungry.
We know it’s not fair,” she says sharply, her inflection slipping into a North Korean accent.
North Korean refugee Danbi in her South Korean apartment, getting ready to go out.
In North Korea, youth informants patrol the streets, to report young people who violate the country's dress codes.
Jeans, which are popular in South Korea, were seen as a symbol of American imperialism in the North.
I’m struck by how much Danbi sounds like an American teen.
She questions authority and brags about skirting the country’s dress codes as a teenager in North Korea.
She tells me about the time she was caught by youth informants for wearing a form-fitting outfit, which had been smuggled from the South.
“They draw a line on the street, and make you stand there, while they tear at your clothes as people walk by. To make an example of you,” she explains.
Jeans were seen as a symbol of American imperialism—and girls caught wearing them would have holes punctured in them to keep them from being worn again.
Hair that was too long was also cut on the spot, she says.
Danbi adds that if you’re caught five or six times, that’s when you’re sent to do forced labor, unless you have the connections and resources to pay a bribe.
“In North Korea, so many things can be resolved if you have enough money now,” she insists.
“We depend on the black markets for our survival.
All of the work, smuggling goods, selling goods, getting officials to turn their backs, that’s all done through money.”
24-year old North Korean refugee Danbi swipes through photos on her mobile phone.
She has no contact with family back home, she says. But some North Korean refugees continue to communicate with their families in the North, via care packages and smuggled Chinese cell phones.
Still most North Koreans live in extreme poverty.
Electricity is limited to a few hours each day, food and running water can be scarce, and the daily threat of forced labor camps — or even harsher punishments—is real.
But Danbi saw the difference it made to have access to the outside world.
She recalls, “We had neighbors with relatives in the South, and suddenly they started doing a lot better, since their family started sending money back.
At one point, my mother even joked, why don’t you disappear and send some money back for us, too.”
According to the NGO Liberty in North Korea, North Korean refugees routinely send money back to North Korea each year.
Those who can afford it are also said to communicate with their families on a regular basis, via care packages and smuggled cell phones.
Danbi escaped to South Korea four years ago — after learning she was being investigated by the North Korean government, and she couldn’t bribe her way out.
Now she’s married to a South Korean man, and what she says she misses most about North Korea — is working the black markets, and the family she left behind.
Serbian Police Officer and Smiling Syrian Boy Show Europe How Welcoming Refugees Is Done · Global Voices
The image was accompanied by a tweet quoting a Syrian refugee in Belgrade: "#Syrians are full of praise for #Serbian police.
'They're fair.
They're the first who didn't treat us like animals.'"
Photo by Manveen Rana.
Used with permission.
The photograph above first appeared online on the morning of September 9, and since then it has become a viral sensation on Twitter and Facebook.
Two Serbian police officers stand at their posts somewhere in downtown Belgrade, one of them holding a Syrian toddler currently staying at the improvised refugee camp near the city's main train station.
The image was posted to Twitter by BBC Radio 4 senior broadcast journalist Manveen Rana, who seems to have traveled to Serbia with a group of refugees from Greece.
Rana's Twitter feed is filled with tales of the journey, from claims of refugees having been beaten by police in Greece to all-night bus rides and images of the makeshift camp in downtown Belgrade.
Arriving in a chilly Belgrade at dawn though, it's business as usual; tents and people sleeping wherever they can. pic.twitter.com/TwZ3RG312U — Manveen Rana (@ManveenRana) September 9, 2015
Central Belgrade.
Many of the #refugees can't afford hotels.
Some have jackets, others are shivering in blankets. pic.twitter.com/w9RvCMeWtJ — Manveen Rana (@ManveenRana) September 9, 2015
They've even set up a clinic on the square in Belgrade where #refugees camp, to help with injuries from their journey pic.twitter.com/0D1nXX23YJ — Manveen Rana (@ManveenRana) September 9, 2015
Things are finally brightening up in Belgrade. #Refugees pic.twitter.com/WgLC42gRRh — Manveen Rana (@ManveenRana) September 9, 2015
While Syrian refugees passing through Serbia en route to Hungary and other EU countries seem to be experiencing generally better treatment than in other countries along the way, Rana reports that these people are still vulnerable to groups trying to take advantage of their desperation.
Some Belgrade residents have reported and complained about street venders selling blankets and old clothes to refugees near the downtown train station—at prices three-to-four times higher than you find in retail stores, no less.
Rana herself was charged some 70 euro by a man who was probably an unlicensed taxi driver (known colloquially as "wild taxis" in Belgrade) for a ride that would have run him about 10 euro in a licensed Belgrade taxi.
Rana noted on Twitter that cab drivers seem to target refugees with these high rates, when driving them to their accommodations in the city.
#Serbian taxi drivers have been ruthless.
They circle the area where #refugees camp and charge extortionate sums at the end of the journey. — Manveen Rana (@ManveenRana) September 9, 2015
After so many recent reports of police brutality and unfair treatment of refugees in some European countries, Internet users in Serbia and elsewhere have celebrated the image of the police officer holding a smiling Syrian boy.
Within a few hours, the tweet attracted more than 800 retweets and almost 1,000 favorites, and it soon spilled over to Facebook and other social networks, as it continues to be retweeted some 50 times per hour.
For everyone cheered by the #Serbian policeman playing with the #Syrian baby, here are some bonus pictures..#refugees pic.twitter.com/BEdzPNdUom — Manveen Rana (@ManveenRana) September 9, 2015
Although its unemployment rate is approaching 28 percent and there are murmurs expressing fear of what might happen to the economy if many refugees decide to remain, Serbia and its people have been generally accepting and often helpful.
Both the public and state officials and police seem to have embraced an open-arms policy in this unfolding refugee crisis.
Serbian social media users have been praising the police officer, and many people say such compassion is what they hope to see from law enforcement throughout the country and in other nations.
At 81, a Japanese Woman Tweets to Remember the Terror of War · Global Voices
Macchako, her parents and her brother in Kobe in 1939.
Used with permission.
As Japan has recently armed itself with legislation allowing the country to go to war after 70 years of official pacifism, some Japanese are reflecting on the bitter experiences of the Second World War.
Japan actively participated in the Second World War, invading China and widening the conflict to fighting allied American and British forces across Southeast Asia.
After Japan's main cities were destroyed in a sea of fire, and atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the Japanese emperor announced the end of the war in a radio address on August 15, 1945.
According to the Japanese government, more than 80 percent of Japanese people were born after the Second World War.
Not even considering people who fought on the frontlines or experienced the destruction of war, there are very few Japanese alive today who have childhood memories of the conflict.
Those few who still have recollections of the war feel there is a need to express their experiences and share them publicly.
My mother, who goes by the Twitter handle "@まっちゃこ" (Macchako), has been sharing her experience of the war on the social network.
On the 70th anniversary of the end of combat, my mother published a series of short tweets.
August 15, 1945, was a hot day!
This tweet alone received more re-tweets than some photos she had published of a recent trip (most of her Twitter contacts are younger people who share similar interests in travel and Japanese entertainment personalities).
On August 15, 1945, I was a fifth-grade elementary school student.
I was playing a game outside with the other kids in the neighborhood.
Everything changed in an instant.
Four years earlier the war started (on December 8, 1941) while I was still in first grade.
Fujita-sensei, our homeroom teacher, had informed us of this news in the strictest possible way.
We weren't surprised because Japan had already been at war before.
During the 1930s, Japan employed a variety of schemes to invade China, gradually increasing the scope of the conflict there.
As the public's appetite for fighting increased, in 1940 Japan entered into an "Axis" alliance with Germany and Italy. The event was celebrated by giving young Japanese children flags of the three Axis powers:
The entire family moved in together, and one early morning a week later Kobe experienced a massive air raid:
On June 5, 1945, when I was in fifth grade, our family went to an air raid shelter after the sirens sounded.
Oh no!
Our house would be burned down!
"Don't worry, your father and I will put out the fire.
You children go to where it's safe-Shonin Hill Temple ," said my mother.
With my 4-year-old sister slung on my back I could not walk one step.
So my 6-year-old brother and my sister pulled me up to the temple.
All we could see was a sea of fire.
Small balls of fire bounced on the ground like flaming coins.
Although the children took shelter in a graveyard halfway to the temple, they were still hunted by machine gun fire and could not get to the temple itself.
The road to the Shonin Hill Temple was famous for luxurious mansions of wealthy merchants.
In the distance we could hear the thud of exploding bombs.
We took shelter in a ditch, and I made by brother and sister plug their ears with their thumbs, cover their eyes with their fingers and lie face down.
They listened to what I said.
When we looked up we saw, 30 meters away, people who had taken shelter in a graveyard. Copying them, we took shelter in the graveyard too.
A mansion to the left of us burst into flames.
In the back part of the air raid shelter there was a statue of a Bodhisattva.
About 20 people had crowded into the shelter, and there was a girl even younger than me holding a baby.
A crazed woman started chanting a prayer in a terrified shriek.
Suddenly the woman called out to me, "How come you're not helping care for the baby here?"
I replied weakly, "Because they aren't from our family."
Once the bombing had stopped, the children were able to reunite with their mother, who had come looking for them.
Once the bombing appeared to have stopped and we went outside, staff from the temple gave everyone one piece of tempura in the main hall.
While I received a piece of battered lotus root, I gave it without thinking to the younger girl.
After that I always had the bad habit of pretending to be cooler than I really was, lol.
My mother, who had thought we had escaped further into the hills, finally found us at the graveyard, and cried as she met us.
A sooty rain fell down on us, turning our faces pitch black.
They returned to the city to find the house they were living in, as well as the family store, burned to the ground.
Once the enemy planes had gone, we returned to our flattened home where small flames still guttered and burned.
Our father had returned to carry what he could from the house, but all he could salvage were two photo albums and a cask of rice.
He waited a long time before trying to open it, but once he did the cask emitted a cloud of ash.
I burst out crying because I felt pity for my father.
Or was I crying because I myself had nothing to eat?
'This was the first time I had ever seen a corpse'
Macchako's Twitter friends said her tweets made them cry.
However, her subsequent recollections exposed even more trauma.
The day after the air raid Macchako's parents went to check on a neighbor.
They could find no trace of this person, who was so close she may as well have been a member of the family.
She was a woman without any other family who had lived in a space at the family confectionery and had looked after Macchako and her brother and sister.
There were witnesses who said she had left the air raid shelter during the middle of the raid.
"Could it be?" my father asked himself as he dug around in the burnt out ruins of our confectionery shop with a hoe...
"Could it be here?" A bone appeared.
Her body was a burnt brick of olive brown.
I was 11 years old and this was the first time I had ever seen a corpse that looked like this.
While it was not normal at that time to express one's thoughts openly, the victims of the bombing were also victims of Japan's Imperial regime.
While my parents had been entrusted with her care, she had no family or relatives.
Every day she had subsisted on a ration of just 330 grams of rice, and grumbled when the ration was reduced to 300 grams.
She had done a good job while looking after my brother and sister.
She had also used a newspaper clipping of the emperor mounted on a horse as a chamber pot for my younger sister.
"If they catch me doing this I'll be arrested for lese majeste," she had said.
At the time photos of the emperor were venerated as religious objects.
During the war, dying for the emperor was considered to be the supreme service one could provide to their country.
Even as it was obvious that Japan was losing, the destruction continued under the slogan "100 million shattered jewels" (一億玉砕, ichioku gyokusai; Japan's population at the time was about 100 million people).
'Be prepared.
The winds of change are upon us'
After being manipulated by a wartime government and a media that glorified the conflict, many Japanese resolved to never allow their children to experience war for a second time.
During the seven-year-long American-led occupation, Japan's postwar constitution renouncing war was enacted.
Many Japanese people were proud and pleased their country had developed a global reputation as a pacifist country.
But in August 2015, efforts by the Abe government to pass a legislative framework that would allow Japan to go to war again dominated the country's media coverage of the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War.
After Macchako's family lost their house in that very conflict, they stayed with relatives for several days.
After that, they moved to an acquaintance's house in the mountains of the rural and remote Shimane Prefecture, where they lived as evacuees until the end of the war.
While the family experienced some hardship being cut off from the rest of the world in rural Shimane, what was different from their experiences as evacuees compared to the children in "Grave of the Fireflies" was that they did not starve.
Macchako avoided that fate by a razor's edge, and lived the next 70 years singing the praises of a peaceful Japan.
In fact, I grew up listening to my mother's stories of the air raid.
"Even if I get old and senile and can't recognize your face, I'll keep telling the story of the air raids," she says.
"Be prepared.
The winds of change are upon us, and the world back then is not so very far away from us now.
We must never let war happen again."
How Yarn Is Making a Difference in the Lives of Women in Nepal and India · Global Voices
Photo by skinnydiver.
CC0 Public Domain
Nicole Snow is an American entrepreneur and founder of Darn Good Yarn, an online creative lifestyle and yarn trade platform that connects women across the globe.
Nicole’s initiative has helped Nepalese and Indian craftswomen distribute quality yarn and goods worldwide and turn their traditional skills into economically viable entrepreneurial ideas.
Darn Good Yarn hand-selects more than 300 skillful women from India and Nepal to work on collecting and recycling textile waste and produce high-quality yarns.
This way, the manufactured waste that would otherwise be sent to landfills is re-purposed to provide raw goods, while the distribution of the products takes place online via the company website, Amazon, or Etsy.
All these factors combined helped Darn Good Yarn grow from $16,000 company in 2008 to $1 million in 2015.
Nicole talked about this recently at the US Chamber of Commerce Small Business Summit, where she said it took several years until she could start working on this particular project full time.
Today, Darn Good Yarn has an active social following, does knitting and weaving classes in their facilities and plans to open a dedicated fiber studio.
I spoke with Nicole to learn more.
Sarah Green: A few weeks ago, New Delhi hosted a conference that gathered women entrepreneurs from South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) nations to help them promote their crafts and fabrics.
Do you feel this initiative is related to what Darn Good Yarn does?
How?
Nicole Snow: Both Darn Good Yarn and this conference share the same goal - encouraging Asian women to take a more active role in the economic development of their respective countries.
By enabling them to build connections with other like-minded women and inspire each other, such initiatives create new business and social opportunities.
When I first traveled to Asia, I was amazed to see the extent to which the work of these women is underestimated.
They possess highly valuable skills and talents and it’s a shame that the world has insufficient understanding of it.
I also noticed there is a lack to basic supply in the poorest regions of these countries.
This exacerbates issues of under-employing these women.
This is why any initiative aimed at helping the world recognize such skills can make a great impact onto the way these women live and work.
Similar to Darn Good Yarn, which is an online space for trading quality yarn, the New Delhi conference does something beyond simply creating marketing opportunities.
It connects the two sides of the market and promotes valuable crafts by Nepalese and Indian women.
Sarah Green: Tell us more about the way Darn Good Yarn is changing social opportunities for women.
Nicole Snow: In addition to enabling women with similar interests to share their ideas, I think that Darn Good Yarn’s major value is the fact it managed to change the living for hundreds of women in Nepal and India.
Namely, when I first started collaborating with these women, their average salaries were less than $2 a day and now they earn $13-$16 a day!
All this was achieved by opening a global market for them using a single resource available to everyone – the Internet.
Sarah Green: You mentioned travelling to Asia.
Is this when you first got the idea of starting Darn Good Yarn?
Nicole Snow: The very idea was conceived based on my personal experience with buying yarn.
After leaving Air Force, I started being interested in knitting and realized that much of the yarn you can buy in the US stores is low quality.
I started looking for a way to get better quality yarn for myself, which is how I discovered this huge market gap.
The realization of the fact that its production in Nepal and India is highly underestimated only added up to my idea, enabling me to create something that has a market value and, at the same time, improves the living of other people.
I personally never expected that the project would be as successful and make such a deep impact on both yarn trade industry and economic opportunities for women in Nepal and India.
Sarah Green: Previously, women in Nepal and other Asian countries mainly produced clothing, food and jewelry for personal use or the use of their close community.
Today, we’re seeing more innovative initiatives by women in these regions having a global impact.
What has changed?
Nicole Snow: Like in most other industries, the availability of the Internet created new opportunities for product sales and promotions, which many women from these regions recognized.
If I could pinpoint a single most important benefit the globalized village has brought about, it would definitely be the openness towards creative initiatives that finally found the medium to monetize their efforts.
Sarah Green: Being a woman entrepreneur yourself, what do you most frequently advise other young people when it comes to entrepreneurial opportunities?
What if they are coming from conservative or otherwise constrained societies?
Nicole Snow: The easiest thing to say is that these women only need to focus on what they do best to eventually gain recognition for their work.
However, the truth is that they need to go through various challenges and adopt new approaches to the world around themselves in order to succeed.
They need to be ready to invest so much energy and time into creative processes that they will often feel completely powerless.
And it is this powerlessness that should inspire them for constant improvement.
I believe everyone is powerful enough to make a significant change for themselves or the world around them, which is a fact they should never forget.
Bahrain Government Renews Crackdown on Religious Rituals · Global Voices
Sanabis, Bahrain. 17th October 2015 — Third night of the month of Muharram, Shia Muslims revive the memory of the martyrdom of Imam Hussein, grandson of Prophet Muhammed, in the village of Sanabis, west of the capital Manama.
Photograph by Sayed Hashim.
Copyright: Demotix
Bahrain's streets are boiling again as the government cracked down on angry protesters with buckshot and tear gas today, October 20.
It all started when security forces appeared in the village of Malkiya, West of Manama, to remove black flags and banners that were put up to mark the commemoration of the martyrdom of Imam Hussein, a champion of justice in the Islamic history.
Security forces then marched on to the nearby villages of Sadad and Karzakan and then to Sanabis to destroy flags and banners put up in villages across Bahrain and the old suq area in the capital Manama to mark Ashura, which is marked on the 10th day of the Arabic month of Muharram.
In Bahrain, and other countries with huge Shia populations, the period of mourning extends for two months.
In this period, black banners and signs carrying sayings of Imam Hussain adorn walls and roadsides, especially in areas where processions marking the occasion pass.
In 2011, at the beginning of widespread Arab Spring-like protests which engulfed the country, authorities destroyed 38 Shia mosques, seen by many as a direct attack on the freedom of Shia in the country to practice their rites and rituals.
Columnist Kassim Hussain tweets today's clashes to his 45K followers:
Clashes in Malkiya and Karzakan, in the west of Bahrain, and in Sanabis, west of Manama, as security forces remove Ashoura banners
Photographs and video footage circulated on social media showed injuries among the protesters, who tried to thwart security forces from removing the banners.
Reema Al Shallan tweets to her 29.6K followers photographs of today's injuries:
Buckshot wounds and excessive suppression with suffocating tear gas just because people refused the removal of Ashura banners in Malkiya
The chaos quickly moved to a neighboring village, Karzakan, as a number of youth came out to prevent the security forces from removing their banners.
Hussain Radhi explains:
Riot police forces suppress people in Karzakan now after they refused removal of Ashura banners
Others expressed anger directly on Twitter.
Hassan Alsharqi notes:
Stop this farce and attack on Hussein's rituals.
What happened in Malkiya and Karzakan, no one can imagined this is Bahrain, it's like Saddam's Iraq.
Enas Oun, member of Bahrain Centre for Human Rights, shared a photograph of tens of tear gas grenades which she said had been fired at the protesters in the Karzakan today:
Pictures that show the amount of toxic gas and buckshot grenades used to suppress those who took to the streets protesting the removal of black banners
Security forces were filmed removing the banners and flags in other areas around Bahrain over the past few days.
#Bahrain regime forces remove manifestations that are usually put up in Ashura annual anniversary #ReligiousFreedom pic.twitter.com/Gm60EZ7T0k — AlwefaqEN (@AlWefaqEN) October 17, 2015
The Ashura religious events have been marked by the Bahraini Shia year after year.
But as the political crisis continues between the government and the people, mainly the Shia community, intimidation is very likely to bolster the problem.
The Ashura rituals are a religious and historic heritage of Shia in Bahrain which goes back to hundreds of years, and the constitution has ensured it in Article 22
Jawad Fairooz, a former member of parliament who is now stateless and in exile, said:
Bahrain's modern history has not seen war on Ashura manifestations as seen today.
Bahrain is a tiny island in the Gulf where Shia are the majority, but they are complaining of political and social disenfranchisement.
Over the past four and half years, it has been swinging in a political stalemate.
Talks between the government and opposition factions have led to no positive outcomes.
Today, most opposition leaders and figures are in jail.
You can also read: Bahrain's Opposition, From Dialogue Tables to Prison Cells
Shia religious places and mosques were also reported to have been attacked by gunmen as the annual Ashura commemoration approached.
Activists criticized the government for not taking the attacks seriously.
Clergyman Shaikh Maytham Al Salman notes:
Is there any seriousness in holding those who demolished 38 mosques, and raided Jawad stores 78 times and shot at Al Sadiq Mosque and Al Baqer mosque and at the Hamala and Dimistan matams accountable?
The Jawad chain of stores, owned by a Shia family, has been attacked and robbed 78 times.
Until today, those responsible for the attacks, some caught on camera, have not been punished.
A matam or Hussainiya is a place a gathering hall for Shia, to observe Shia rituals like commemorating Ashura.
Gambia's President Bans Female Genital Mutilation, but There's Still Much Work to Be Done · Global Voices
President of the Gambia Yahya Jammeh addresses United Nations General Assembly on 24 September, 2013.
UN photo by Erin Siegal.
Used under Creative Commons license BY-NC-ND 2.0.
The Gambia surprised itself and the world on 23 November 2015 when it announced an executive ban on the practice of female genital mutilation (FGM) just days before the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women.
FGM involves the ritual of removing of some or all of the external female genitalia for non-medical reasons.
It is usually carried out using a blade, with or without anaesthesia.
The practice has no health benefits and can come with a range of painful complications.
Nineteen countries in Africa have outlawed FGM.
The United Nations general assembly set aside 25 November every year to mark the beginning of a 16-day period of activism on gender-based violence.
Gambian President Yahya Jammeh, speaking at a political rally in his home village of Kanilai, announced an executive order banning of the practice in The Gambia with immediate effect.
He said:
Female circumcision is banned in The Gambia from Kartong to Koina .
For 21 years, I have been researching from the Qur’an and consulting religious leaders whether female circumcision is mentioned in the Qur’an but I did not find it there.
The world media reverberated with the news in a somewhat jubilant mood, paying tributes to decades of advocacy by feminists and human rights activists.
Despite the presidential ban, however, there is no law in the country that prohibits the practice, and some observers cautioned against declaring the fight over just yet.
'Justification along cultural, traditional and religious lines'
According to a Unicef report, Gambian Muslim clerics are divided on FGM in a country where over 90 percent of the population is Muslim.
Some argue that it is an optional, but recommendable religious practice (sunnah); however, FGM predates Islam, and people of other faiths throughout Africa also perform the "cut", pointing to a strong cultural element in the practice.
Anti-FGM activists marching in the Gambia.
Photo released under Creative Commons by GAMCOTRAP
FGM is pervasive in the Gambia with figures suggesting that over 70 percent of women experience one form of FGM or another.
For more than two decades, activism and advocacy efforts have had little effect, especially at the policy level.
Efforts to introduce an anti-FGM legislation in the tiny West African country had so far met stiff resistance with politicians declining even to meet civil society groups on the subject.
Below is a documentary, Cutting the Womanhood, about FGM in the Gambia:
Modou Joof, a Gambian journalist and blogger who has covered FGM and other human rights related issues, reacted to the news:
This could be the beginning of show of political will to ban fgm - which has been lacking according to campaigners.
The Girls Agenda, one of the leading community-based organisations advocating for women and girls rights, posted this on their Facebook page:
Our grassroots approach in raising awareness and demanding for policies, laws, and practices that empower and recognise the rights of women and girls will continue.
We're committed to ending all forms of violence ranging from FGM, child marriage, intimate partner violence to political isolation while giving girls the best tools of communications, negotiations and assertiveness skills they need in order to thrive.
In a long but analytical piece on the announcement, the Linguere blog had this to say:
Increasing awareness of the public on the dangers of FGM and its effects on girls and women is the sure way to changing attitudes and influencing an abandonment of the practice.
FGM is a deeply-rooted culture and its practice has prevailed with a justification along cultural, traditional and religious lines.
As with many other cultural and traditional practices, there needs to be a shift in perception of the practice, for abandonment to become a true reality.
'Jammeh is prone to making outlandish, bizarre, and one-off statements'
However, the Robert F Kennedy Human Rights center cautioned against excitement, arguing that President Jammeh is known for making outlandish statements:
The Gambia was thrust into the spotlight this week after the country’s longtime president, Yahya Jammeh, announced a ban on female genital mutilation (FGM).
This pronouncement surprised many, especially after the country’s National Assembly rejected a similar proposal in March of this year, claiming that Gambians “were not ready.” ...Lost in all the celebrations, particularly on social media, is the fact that FGM is not banned in The Gambia, at least not yet.
There is no enforceable law on the books.
And recall that Jammeh is prone to making outlandish, bizarre, and one-off statements.
The last time Jammeh actually lived up to a promise was when he publicly vowed to summarily execute death row inmates, which was carried out in August 2012.
The Gambia is already a state party and signatory to many international and regional human rights instruments that are not in line with harmful traditional practices such as FGM.
The country is a signatory to the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the Convention on the Rights of Children, African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights, and the Maputo Protocol, among others.
It is necessary to harmonise local regulations to these international standards.
The November 23 executive pronouncement should be a beginning, not an end in itself.
But for now, while activists may breathe some sighs of relief, the true winners are the hundreds if not thousands of Gambian girls at risk of FGM annually.
International Tribunal Reopens Indonesia's 'Forgotten Genocide' · Global Voices
Opening day of the International People's Tribunal in The Hague about the 1965 mass killings in Indonesia.
Photo from the Flickr page of the tribunal, CC 2.0.
An International People's Tribunal (IPT) was held in The Hague, last week, from November 10 to November 13, where testimonies were heard from survivors of the 1965 mass killings in Indonesia.
The Indonesian government is accused of orchestrating an anti-communist purge that killed more than half a million people.
The majority killings took place in Java and Bali between 1965 and 1966.
The victims were branded communists or sympathizers of the Indonesian Communist Party (PKI).
Thousands were jailed without trial and many were tortured and forced to confess their involvement with the PKI.
The most notorious prison was on Buru Island, where hundreds of political prisoners (including prominent Indonesian author Pramoedya Ananta Toer) were incarcerated.
The island's prison system is often compared to the Soviet Union's Gulag.
Before the 1965 killings, the PKI was the largest communist party outside the USSR and the People's Republic of China.
Fifty years on, the government continues to deny that the state was was responsible for summarily executing innocent civilians, insisting that communists were the first to attack army officials.
Rather than acknowledge the atrocities committed by the army, the government has instead decorated many high-ranking officers during this period as heroes.
In fact, the government once again announced its plan to name Commander Sarwo Edhie Wibowo, who led an elite unit of the Indonesian Army in 1965-67, a national hero. (Wibowo is also the father of former first lady Kristiani Yudhoyono.)
The period between 1965 and 1966 was a dark moment in the modern history of Indonesia.
When General Suharto came to power in 1967, he prohibited any investigation of the killings.
Even when Suharto resigned in 1998, succeeding governments have rejected appeals to review the role of the military in the 1965 mass killings.
Dr. Soe Tjen Marching, British coordinator of the IPT 1965 and founder of non-profit Yayasan Bhinneka Nusantara, wrote a Facebook post summarizing one of the IPT's sessions.
She was deeply affected by the story of one survivor in particular:
Yesterday in the International Tribunal Hearing of '65 case, a woman witness (Rahayu) narrated how she was raped and sexually assaulted.
I was assigned to be the note-taker but ended up needing to distance myself, and eventually I asked for a replacement.
Not only because my carpal tunnel hurts, but also because I couldn't contain my emotions, listening to the cases of rape committed by Soeharto's soldiers.
There were also reports that customers of a state-owned Internet service provider in Indonesia couldn't access the IPT's website, while the hearings were being held.
Indonesian netizens used the Twitter hashtag #IPT1965 to post updates about the IPT sessions in The Hague and to share their reflections about the issue.
I pray for all of the 1965's victims—every one of them
Do you know that CGMI, an organization associated with the PKI wasn't a branch of PKI?
Timeline: IPT 1965 in Den Haag.
Involved in 1965 hearings, IPT 1965 Advocate Todung Mulya Lubis is ready to be branded a traitor.
In Bali post 30 Sep 1965 was horrifying.
Especially in 1966.
People who are disputing over inheritance can defeat an enemy by calling him/her "a PKI"
Gareth Evans: The Indonesian massacre of 1965 is the least talked-about #genocide of the last century https://t.co/DyTBA5Ncxg — Project Syndicate (@ProSyn) November 8, 2015
Continuing censorship
In Indonesia, describing the 1965 violence as genocide can invited unwanted attention from the government.
Last month, police revoked a permit belonging to the Ubud Writers' Festival, which was planning to tackle the truth about the 1965 killings. Police say Ubud Writers Festival prohibitions on discussing 1965 communist purge due to 1966 gov decree #uwrf15 https://t.co/KcBp37ys6W via — Jewel Topsfield (@JewelTopsfield) October 25, 2015
Read New York Times' survey of the recent crackdown on freedom of expression around the 1965 Indonesian genocide! https://t.co/QFCxw3DC0w — Joshua Oppenheimer (@JoshuaOppenheim) November 6, 2015
Also last October, the editor of Lentera, a university student magazine, was summoned by the police for publishing an article about the history of the PKI in Salatiga, a small town in Central Java.
The police also ordered the editor to retrieve the distributed copies of the magazine.
Government will not apologize for 1965 killings
Indonesian President Joko Widodo included reconciliation for the victims of human rights violations on his nine-point agenda ("Nawa Cita"), but seems to have backtracked on this commitment.
Luhut Panjaitan, the coordinating minister for political, legal, and security affairs, said the government will focus on reconciliation, but it will not apologize for the communist purge.
Reacting to the IPT, Vice President Jusuf Kalla claimed that it has no political significance:
JK: No need for the government to apologize for the 1965 event.
Dr. Ken Setiawan, a fellow at University of Melbourne and daughter of one of the people detained in 1965, asked in an opinion article on the school's website if reconciliation is possible without an apology:
An apology, however, requires looking back, to acknowledge the past and admit the truth.
This is a very important process, particularly considering the deeply painful experiences of victims and survivors.
But acknowledging the past and the role played by the state in serious violations of human rights challenges dominant historical and political narratives, and that guarantees resistance.
It remains to be seen how the Jokowi government will navigate these challenges and how it will give meaning to its promise to establish justice.
Jamaicans Are Unimpressed With the UK's Pish-Posh Attitude on Slavery Reparations · Global Voices
The sculpture at Emancipation Park in Kingston, Jamaica.
Image by Kent MacElwee, used under a CC BY-NC-ND 2.0 license.
The idea of reparations for the slave trade is not new, but it has gained some traction—especially within the Caribbean region—over the last eight years.
Guyana was the first CARICOM territory to lend its voice to the issue, calling on European nations who were involved in the Atlantic slave trade to pay compensation.
Four years later, Antigua and Barbuda made a passionate plea for reparations at the United Nations:
To help counter the lingering damage inflicted on generations of peoples of African descent by generations of slave-trading and colonialism, we call on those very States to back up their apologies with new commitments to the economic development of the nations that have suffered from this human tragedy.
The following year, both Jamaica and Barbados established reparation commissions, charged with leading the lobby for both formal apologies for the horrors and inhumanity of slavery as well as economic justice for descendants of slaves.
Now, with the visit of British Prime Minister David Cameron to its shores, Jamaica is once again in the front line of the reparations discussion.
But the UK is having none of it, its point being that slavery is "centuries old".
It will, however, spend 25 million British pounds (approximately US $38 million) to build a new prison on the island, ostensibly to house all the law-breaking Jamaican immigrants who come to Britain.
Cameron explained:
It is absolutely right that foreign criminals who break our laws are properly punished but this shouldn’t be at the expense of the hardworking British taxpayer.
That’s why this agreement is so important.
It will mean Jamaican criminals are sent back home to serve their sentences, saving the British taxpayer millions of pounds but still ensuring justice is done.
'We merely ask that you acknowledge responsibility'
The regional blogosphere was not impressed; the revelation felt like insult on top of injury.
Jamaica-based Annie Paul, in a Facebook status update, said:
Jamaican Parliament should stand in stony silence as David Cameron enters…no clapping, no cheers. ‪#‎Reparations‬
Further south along the archipelago, Trinidadian Facebook user Rhoda Bharath commented:
The Brits paid compensation to planters after having built an empire off the backs of African people...
Now Cameron telling Jamaica to move on from slavery...he not paying reparations...but he willing to build a prison for Jamaica.
Your move Sistah P .
‪#‎AssBackwards‬
Prime Minister of Jamaica Portia Simpson-Miller, at the ceremony unveiling the winning design for the slavery memorial at the UN.
Photo by United Nations Information Centres, credit to the UN Social Media Team, used under a CC BY-NC-ND 2.0 license.
Of course, Cameron is not the first British prime minister to avoid the reparations discussion — Tony Blair deftly sidestepped the issue in 2006 — but Cameron's family history makes the whole topic a tad tricker for him, since a distant relative was found to have profited from the slave trade — and in Jamaica of all places.
One Twitter user addressed that point by saying:
Also we can't forget that British Slave owners were compensated for their "losses of property" after the Abolition. #Jamaica #Reparations — Alex...אלכס (@AlexTheBrotha) September 30, 2015
The concept of reparations is not unprecedented — a point duly made by Sir Hilary Beckles, the current vice chancellor of The University of the West Indies and chair of the Caricom Reparations Commission, who, in 2013, "urged Caribbean countries to emulate the position adopted by the Jews who were persecuted during the Second World War and have since organised the Jewish Reparation Fund."
This Twitter user echoed his sentiment:
#Reparations.
A legal principle well established in international law.
The rest is just politics. #Jamaica pic.twitter.com/HfKJvS5Ukr — Mr Lee Jasper (@LeeJasper) September 30, 2015
Beckles, in addressing the UK's role in the slave trade and responsibilities to its descendants, said: We ask not for handouts or any such acts of indecent submission.
Wow. Britain wont pay #reparations to #Jamaica, but will built big prison instead.
Wow. — Bryan Boxtroll (@BPMiranda) September 29, 2015
Many felt that it was important to keep the pressure on, regardless of Cameron's stance, and several Twitter users were pleased that Jamaica had the gumption to bring up what was a difficult conversation to have — socially, economically and politically.
Other Twitter users were busy doing the math:
THE National Commission on #Reparations (NCR) says the #Caribbean is due £7.5 trillion for #slavery. #Jamaica... http://t.co/hxxhfdO0hz — RasTafari TV™ (@RasTafariTV) June 25, 2015
The modern equivalent of £20m is £16-17bn. #reparations #Jamaica — Joseph (@lordtflakojosef) September 29, 2015
Jamaica's cause was getting support in the UK, and many netizens were sharing links about films dealing with the reparations issue.
'If you think this is ’bout money, you wrong'
Detractors argue that for reparations to be a plausible request, it must be proven that descendants of slaves are still suffering the effects — economic and psychological — of slavery.
Jamaican diaspora litblogger Geoffrey Philp's reply to this was in a poem, dedicated to Sir Hilary Beckles, called "Busha Day Done":
Time show me I was wrong,
but I know that like justice, it longer than rope.
So, Busha, I not going bend: I not going give up hope.
And make me tell you plain: if you think this is ’bout money,
you wrong too.
This is about Justice; your crime against my humanity.
For those who prefer less flowery language, this Twitter user put forward a clever summary of the argument for reparations:
A handy, easy to understand guide, for those for who dont get the #Reparations for #Jamaica debate.
RT pic.twitter.com/bISz3OxIfR — Mr Lee Jasper (@LeeJasper) September 30, 2015
There were a few voices crying in the wilderness, however, and Michelle Bradshaw at The Jamaican Blogs was one of them.
In what is no doubt an unpopular stance, she supported Cameron's proposal to build the prison:
INDEPENDENT PEOPLE are supposed to find their own way.
We cannot 'cuss' Backra Massah from one side of our mouth and then seek pittance from the other side.
Don’t curse Mr. Cameron, curse the tribalistic politics that has brought Jamaica to its current state from we received independence till now.
For over 50 years we have been an independent nation and the only thing Britain can offer us is a BIGGER prison, and that for you is Jamaica’s political independence.
Jamaicans however, found the whole thing ironic.
There have been widespread calls for the Jamaican government to reject Cameron's offer.
Fans Step Up After Chinese Artist Ai Weiwei Hits Brick Wall With Lego · Global Voices
Ai Weiwei Twitter wallpaper from the Royal Academy Exhibition 2015.
Photo by Kevin Rennie.
Chinese artist and dissident Ai Weiwei has become the centre of another controversy — toy giant Lego has refused to fill an order by the National Gallery of Victoria for an exhibition of his in Melbourne, Australia.
Weiwei detailed his dealings with Lego on his Instagram account.
He pointed out that a month after the company rejected his bulk order request, the separate group that owns Legoland attractions inked a deal to open the attraction in Shanghai.
Beckett Mufson picks up the story from there on arts and technology blog The Creators Project:
The public reaction was overwhelming and supportive of the artist, with many fans offering Weiwei their own (often sizable) Lego collections to use instead.
Yesterday, Weiwei announced that he'd take them up on their offers with soon-to-be-announced Lego collection points, and that their bricks would be used in an artwork designed "to defend freedom of speech and 'political art.'"
Sarah Joseph, director of Melbourne's Castan Centre for Human Rights Law, helped spread the news on Twitter:
What an utterly gutless move by #Lego to refuse #AiWeiWei order.
How does it presume to judge how people use its product?
Very disappointing — Sarah Joseph (@profsarahj) October 25, 2015
Regardless of censorship accusations, even official Chinese media have commented.
State-owned Global Times argued in an opinion piece that Lego's decision was simply Western capitalism in action (English translation from What's On Weibo, a site that reports on conversations happening on popular Chinese platform Weibo):
This is an interesting conflict.
Ai Wei Wei used Lego for his political work, and in doing so, was cheered on by his Western supporters.
But the Lego company, following the general principle of Western multinational corporations, refused to be connected to Ai’s political work.
They want to keep their business commercial, and avoid any involvement in political disputes.
What's On Weibo wrote that responses on Chinese social media ranged from surprise at the open discussion of a dissident, irritation at the West's perceived double standards on human rights, and support for Lego.
Weiwei put his case in his usual graphic style via Instagram: "Everything is awesome "
On Twitter, there were the inevitable responses to Lego as a commercial brand: No Lego on my Christmas-Burthday shopping list @LEGO_Group.
Not supporting Ai Wei Wei @aiww is very disappointing., — julia (@j4jools) October 25, 2015
Cowardly Lego are fine with Legoland in Shanghai, but refuse to sell political artist Ai Wei Wei a bulk order. https://t.co/FJGuwhQzmv — leyla sanai (@leylasanai) October 24, 2015
Lego is reported as defending its actions:
In an email to The Guardian, Lego spokesperson Roar Rude Trangbæk, said: "Any individual person can naturally purchase or get access to Lego bricks in other ways to create their Lego projects if they desire to do so, but as a company, we choose to refrain from engaging in these activities – through for example bulk purchase."
It also denied insinuations from Ai that Lego’s decision was coloured by a desire to protect its business in China, stating that its Legoland parks were sold to UK-based Merlin Entertainment a decade ago.
So far there has been no comment by Lego on its website or Twitter account.
Meanwhile, Weiwei is getting his Lego bricks via crowdsourcing:
Take that, Lego.
Ai Weiwei inundated with Lego donations after toy maker refuses to send bricks on political grounds https://t.co/mNNNMEhJ5O — Rohit Talwar (@rtalwar) October 26, 2015
Weiwei announced that the National Gallery of Victoria has decided to become the first collection point in Australia for Lego brick donations and more points will be set up in major cities around the world:
The National Gallery of Victoria has decided to become the first collection point in Australia for LEGO bricks donations. Drop-in deliveries will be accepted in a BMW vehicle located in the gallery's sculpture garden.
Donations can also be sent by mail to the museum at 180 St Kilda Road, Melbourne VIC 3004.
A photo posted by Ai Weiwei (@aiww) on Oct 27, 2015 at 12:42am PDT
It May Be Legal Now, But Many Chinese Say They Can't Afford a Second Child Anyway · Global Voices
One-child policy poster from the 1980s.
Many Chinese aren't as excited as you might expect about the Communist Party's announcement on October 29 that the one-child will be abolished, allowing all married couples to have a second child if they choose.
Instead, a large number have responded to the "good news" by venting their frustration on Chinese social media over the heavy burden of the new so-called "two-child policy".
The average monthly salary of a graduate in big cities like Beijing is just about 3,000 yuan (approximately US $500) while the average property price is 30,000 yuan (US $5,000) per square meter.
And raising a child also implies expensive foreign formula milk, expensive kindergarten fees and the increasing risk of young mothers losing their job — all of which are very realistic problems.
The new rules will further ease family planning policy in China, the world's most populous country, which introduced the single-child policy in the late 1970s to rein in the surging population by restricting most urban couples to one child and most rural couples to two children if the first child born was a girl.
The change of family planning policy is intended to balance skewed population sex ratio and address the challenge of an ageing population, according to a communique issued after an important party session held last week.
Less children at a high cost
According to the National Bureau of Statistics, China had a population of 1.368 billion at the end of 2014, while India, with the world's second largest population, had about 1.25 billion people.
Since its implementation, the one-child policy has resulted in an estimated reduction of some 400 million people in China, according to the government.
However, it has also been blamed for generating a number of social problems, especially a skewed sex ratio, an aging population and a lot of families bereft of only child.
According to official data from 2014, the sex ratio of men to women born in the 1980s and unmarried is 136:100, the most disproportional in the world.
In 2014, China had over 212 million people above the age of 60, accounting for 15.5 percent of the population.
Families bereft of their only child due to natural disasters, accidents, diseases and etc. in China have accumulated over 1 million since 1990, according to Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
Though declining, China's labor force still remained at high level of 916 million in 2014, outnumbering Europe’s total population of 730 million — far from representing a labor shortage or demographic dividend disappearing.
At the beginning of 2014, China relaxed its family planning policy to allow parents to have a second child if one of them was an only child themselves.
According to China's National Health and Family Planning Commission, by the end of May, only 1.45 million of 11 million eligible couples had applied to have a second child.
'Give birth to another mortgage slave'
According to an online poll by Chinese news site Sina.com, 60 percent of respondents said they didn’t want to have a second child after the announcement of the new policy.
Over 72 percent listed economic pressure as the main obstacle to having a second child.
Other fears circulating were that having another child will translate into women being pressured to spend more time at home and less time at work, perhaps diminishing employers' willingness to hire women.
China's population is expected to reach 1.45 billion by 2030 following the end of the one-child policy, said Wang Pei'an, deputy head of the National Health and Family Planning Commission.
About 90 million couples will qualify to have a second child after the policy is enacted, Wang said, adding that around 60 percent of the qualified women were 35 years old or older.
In the comments section of Headline News on microblogging service Weibo, the following comments on the two-child policy news received the most likes:
Family planning policy is not the reason stopping people from fertility.
The rich can go abroad to Hong Kong to give birth.
The key to the reluctance is being unable to support more children.
Who would raise a child if I had given birth to another?
Can I rely on the government?
Ultimately, I have to raise the child on my own.
But sorry, I wouldn’t bear the second child because I’m unable to support another.
It’s tough to raise one child, and having another could cost my life.
To be frank, the government just wants us to give birth to another mortgage slave, doesn’t it?
You’d better emigrate from China.
It’s so expensive living here that you even can’t afford to die.
We live like livestock.
Urban residents can’t afford to bear a second child because of the heavy burden of living, while in poor countryside peasants tend to bear more children to have more labor on hand.
Then the peasants would migrant to cities, prompting house prices to increase.
Why let people still bear another child when many can’t afford to raise one? Are you becoming so anxious that the slaves are insufficient to serve you?
You May Not Know It—But If You Speak Spanish, You Speak Some Arabic Too · Global Voices
The Alhambra fortress in Granada, Spain, was built by the Arabic-speaking Moors in the 13th century when they ruled parts of the Iberian peninsula.
Photo by Jeanne Menj.
CC BY-ND 2.0
This article and radio report by Joy Diaz for The World originally appeared on PRI.org on October 15, 2015, and is republished here as part of a content-sharing agreement.
Rihab Massif, originally from Lebanon, was my daughter's preschool teacher in Austin.
As a little girl, Camila, my daughter, spoke mostly in Spanish.
And Massif remembers a day when Camila was frustrated because she couldn't remember a word in English.
"She was telling me about her camis," Massif says.
Camisa is the word in Spanish for "shirt," and Massif understood it perfectly because camis means the same thing in Arabic.
"And I was like 'Oh!
There are some words related to Arabic,'” she says.
To see just how many, Massif and I did an exercise.
I'd say a word in Spanish, and she'd say it back in Arabic.
"Aceite?"
"We say ceit," Massif says.
"Guitarra?"
"We say guitar."
Now that I am aware, it seems like I hear Arabic words everywhere.
Take, for instance, one of my favorite songs by Latin Grammy winner Juan Luis Guerra.
"Ojalá Que Llueva Café" is peppered with words like café (coffee) and ojalá (God willing, or hopefully) — both of which come from Arabic.
Or, take late salsa singer Celia Cruz's catchphrase, ¡Azucar!, meaning sugar, based on another Arabic word.
Linguist Victor Solis Parejo from the University of Barcelona in Spain says part of the language Spanish speakers use comes from a legacy of the Moorish influence.
“Moors” was the name used to refer to the Arabic-speaking group from North Africa that invaded what would become Spain back in the eighth century.
Their influence lasted about 700 years and is still visible today.
"Especially if you travel south of Spain­.
For example in Merida, in the city where I was born, we have the Alcazaba Arabe, an Arabic fortification," Parejo says.
"So, you can see that in the cities nowadays, but you can also see that Islamic presence, that Arabic presence in the language."
And of course, that presence traveled to the Americas with the Spaniards.
About 4,000 Spanish words are believed to come directly from Arabic.
That's why Maria Gutierrez, a Mexican aid worker with a non-profit in Jordan, says she carries a small notebook with her wherever she goes.
"Yeah!
I'm trying to track all those words.
It's like, ‘One more word!’
At least every day I'll find a word, and I'll be like, 'Oh, it's exactly the same as Spanish!' or, 'It's very close to Spanish,'" she says.
The sooner Gutierrez masters the language, the sooner she'll be effective with her aid work, and right now being able to speak Spanish is giving her a shortcut.
But why should this merger of Spanish and Arabic matter to Americans?
Well, the two most spoken languages in the United States are English and Spanish.
So, some wonder what could happen to these languages as time goes by, including Parejo.
"Languages are alive,” he says.
Languages adapt and borrow words from each other, especially those that live in close proximity.
"I still remember when I first came to Texas,” Parejo says.
“I went to this restaurant with my wife and the waiter asked us, 'Do you want to have dinner inside or do you want to go to the patio?'
I never heard that word in English."
Patio is a Spanish word.
If the influence exists to the point that we often joke about the existence of "Spanglish," imagine what Americans will be speaking in, say, 100 or 200 years when tens of millions more Spanish-speakers may be calling the US home.
Animated Series 'South Park' Showed China's President Kissing a Woman. Who Is She? · Global Voices
Screencapture from season 19, episode 6 of "South Park".
Chinese President Xi Jinping made an appearance on the American adult animated sitcom South Park at the end of October.
True to the show's politically incorrect form, the episode skewered Japanese yaoi or "boys' love" comic culture as well as diplomatic relations between China, Japan and South Korea.
Yaoi is a comic sub-genre popular mainly among young Asian women that depicts idealized gay relationships between male characters.
The episode last week had Asian students bringing the yaoi culture to South Park by distributing dreamy photos of Tweek and Craig, two male students at school.
Everyone in town begins to believe the two are gay, even though they aren't.
At one point, the father of fellow classmate Stan, ignorant of what yaoi is, calls up Chinese President Xi Jinping to ask how Asian people decide who is gay or not.
Xi answers, "That comes from Japan" and "They are dogs who refuse not apologize to the Chinese Republic."
What's more, at the end of the episode, the Chinese president kisses his Korean-speaking secretary in his office.
The scenes had South Park's Chinese audiences wide-eyed in surprise.
The pirated copies of the original episode vanished quickly from the domestic Internet and now a censored version is online with the "dogs" comment and the kissing scene removed.
Chinese fans of South Park were worried that the attention to the politically sensitive elements of the episode would alert the country's propaganda authorities to ban the animated show from online circulation.
For non-Chinese, perhaps the most provocative moment was the "dogs" comment:
holy. shit. the gay anime south park episode has the president of china calling japanese people dogs. pic.twitter.com/9hbhmmnJkT — Stefan Constantine (@WhatTheBit) November 1, 2015
Most Chinese audiences, however, were not bothered by that, seeing the remark as politically correct.
It was the kissing scene that they believed might have crossed the line.
Who's the woman in the president's office?
Xi Jinping is married to Peng Liyuan. But the Korean-speaking woman character in his office, who hasn't appeared in the show before this episode, was definitely not Xi's wife.
South Park Wiki presented the woman as his secretary, implying an extramarital affair.
Such an act would be regarded as corrupt within the context of the country's anti-graft campaign, and netizens feared it would get the series banned:
Kissing with secretary in the end, this is like adding fuel to the fire.
South Park's Chinese fans pointed out that the woman was not just an ordinary secretary but actually Park Geun-hye, South Korea's president who has overseen increasingly closer ties to China.
Historically, Japan, China and South Korea have bad relations. Japan invaded South Korea and China during the Second World War.
During the Korean War (1950-1953) China joined the North Korean troops to fight against the US-backed South Korean troop.
In the past few decades, the territorial disputes among the three countries have been non-stop.
Yet somehow, Japan has become the common enemy of China and South Korea.
On Twitter, @SlowZhu highlighted the recent news of the China-Japan-South Korea summit to show the figure is actually Park:
Very likely this is the woman kissed by the Jinping character in South Park.
'This is far from a malicious attack'
Representing diplomatic relations as such could still get the show in trouble.
On popular social media platform Weibo, South Park's fans were worried about the fate of South Park in China.
Some defended the show by explaining the difference between humor and maliciousness:
The problem is the end when the current king kisses the imperial concubine Ms. Geun.
This episode is mainly to mock the invasion of yaoi culture.
Xi only appeared for a dozen seconds as a satire of the diplomatic war of words over Japan's apology for the Second World War.
The kissing scene at the end reflects China and South Korea's ambiguous relations.
The animation is for adult consumption, Chairman Mao made an appearance in the past as well.
This is far from a malicious attack.
This is enough… the episode is not a malicious attack on the Chinese empire.
If you think so, you are way too sensitive or you are not a fan of South Park.
You don't have any idea about how the satire works in South Park.
During the 2008 Olympics, it addressed the hot issue of the Chinese threat and Mao made several appearances.
The ban should have been issued back then.
Given a nationwide campaign to guard Chinese young people against the "corruption" of western civilization, many South Park's fans are pessimistic and making efforts to download whatever remains of the animated show online:
Shit, I thought this is the end… Sohu TV has already taken down everything after season 12… I have to look for other online resources to download…
Did a Russian Journalist Just Out Vladimir Putin's Secret Daughter By Accident? · Global Voices
Daddy Vladimir.
Image edited by Kevin Rothrock.
There’s a woman in Moscow who goes by the name Katerina Tikhonova.
She works as the director of the Innopraktika Foundation, which is busy developing a real estate project at Moscow State University that’s estimated to be worth almost $2 billion.
This week, on October 22, the news agency Interfax published an interview with Ms. Tikhonova, where she spoke at length about Innopraktika’s work with Moscow State University, explaining how her group is busy “establishing systematic interactions with the business community” and “analyzing” different groups’ opinions about the development project coming together at the school.
But nobody seems terribly interested in Tikhonova’s billion-dollar project.
The one question on everyone’s mind was also the thing Interfax never asked her: is she the daughter of Russian President Vladimir Putin?
Speculation about Tikhonova’s “high birth” began in January this year, when journalist Oleg Kashin ran a story on his website claiming as much, following a large investigative report in RBC about Tikhonova’s development project at Moscow State University.
Following Kashin’s claims, anonymous acquaintances of the Putin family allegedly confirmed to Reuters and Bloomberg that she is indeed Putin’s daughter.
When reporters asked Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, about the rumors, Peskov said ambiguously, “I am unable to assess that.”
Today, following Interfax’s interview with Tikhonova, there seemed to be additional confirmation that she is the President’s child, when Yuri Pogorely, Interfax’s online projects director, intimated her ties to Putin.
Pogorely’s comments occurred on Facebook, in a discussion with Tatiana Lysova, an editor at the newspaper Vedomosti, and Elizaveta Osetinskaya, the chief editor of RBC, who criticized Interfax for the interview with Tikhonova.
Midway into the exchange, Pogorely seems to let the cat out of the bag:
Yuri Pogorely: Liza, does Putin’s daughter often grant you interviews?
She granted us one on the following conditions: that it would be only about Moscow State University, and that there’d be no photos.
We were okay with that.
Tatiana Lysova: And the whole thing was done in written form , it seems.
Elizaveta Osetinskaya: Why didn’t you mention in the text “who” was giving you the interview?
Yuri Pogorely: Tanya, I understand that you and Liza would have told her to get lost, but we as an agency decided that it would be interesting to our wide circle of readers.
Tatiana Lysova: Well, an interview with Putin’s daughter would have been even more interesting to a wide circle of readers.
Yuri Pogorely: I’m talking about the agency’s readers. :)
Yuri Pogorely: Don’t forget that our website is just the tip of the iceberg, while your sites are the whole icebergs.
Tatiana Lysova: But did this go out only on the website?
Or did it go out to your subscribers, too?
Yuri Pogorely: This one was precisely for our subscribers.
They know who Putin’s daughter is.
Many in Russia’s media community interpret Pogorely’s final remark above to be an admission that Tikhonvoa is in fact Putin’s daughter.
Ilya Klishin, the chief editor of Dozhd television’s website, called out Pogorely on the comment, which the Interfax editor immediately tried to walk back, claiming to have misspoke.
Yuri Pogorely: Let’s cut the crap.
Ilya, I don’t confirm—I deny—, and I think it’s idiocy to ask the Interfax online editor who Putin’s daughter is.
Ask the source.
Ilya Klishin: “Yuri Pogorely: Liza, does Putin’s daughter often grant you interviews?
She granted us one on the following conditions: that it would be only about Moscow State University, and that there’d be no photos.
We were okay with that.”
You explained the conditions on which Putin’s daughter gave you an interview.
Do you deny this statement?
It was said in a public space, not some private post.
Yuri Pogorely: Yes, of course I deny it. And I’m not commenting to Dozhd television, and I’m speaking as a private citizen .
Yuri Pogorely: Will that be all, Ilya?
Ilya Klishin: I’ve understood you.
Thanks.
So did Pogorely let slip that Tikhonova’s relationship to Vladimir Putin is a known secret in the world of informed society, or was he merely speaking out bombastically, perhaps annoyed about the disapproval Interfax’s interview has provoked?
Whatever the truth of the matter, Pogorely seems certain that only an idiot would turn to him for answers.
